---
title: "Oracle Linux Manager: Installation Guide"
source_url: "https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/install"
fetched: 2026-03-26
tags:
  - "oracle-linux"
  - "olm210"
  - "installation"
type: "oracle-doc"
sensitivity: public
---

Installation Guide for Release 2.10

F36092-17

December 2024

---

[Title and Copyright Information](#copyright-information)

Oracle Linux Manager Installation Guide for Release 2.10

F36092-17

[Copyright ©](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/legal&id=cpyr)2021, 2024, Oracle and/or its affiliates.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/install/install-Preface.html -->

WARNING:

The software described in this documentation is supported for a limited period under Extended Support. Oracle Linux 7 is now in Extended Support. See
[Oracle Linux Extended Support](https://www.oracle.com/a/ocom/docs/linux/oracle-linux-extended-support-ds.pdf) and
[Oracle Open Source Support Policies](https://www.oracle.com/us/support/library/enterprise-linux-support-policies-069172.pdf)
for more information.

Consider using OS Management Hub to manage operating system infrastructure. See
[OS Management Hub](https://www.oracle.com/cloud/compute/os-management/)
for more information.

[Oracle® Linux Manager: Installation Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/install/) describes how to install Oracle Linux Manager 2.10 in Oracle Linux 7servers
and proxies. Oracle Linux Manager 2.10 is based on the Spacewalk open source
software.

### Conventions

The following text conventions are used in this document:

| Convention | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| boldface | Boldface type indicates graphical user interface elements associated with an action, or terms defined in text or the glossary. |
| italic | Italic type indicates book titles, emphasis, or placeholder variables for which you supply particular values. |
| `monospace` | Monospace type indicates commands within a paragraph, URLs, code in examples, text that appears on the screen, or text that you enter. |

### Documentation Accessibility

For information about Oracle's commitment to accessibility, visit the Oracle Accessibility
Program website at <https://www.oracle.com/corporate/accessibility/>.

### Access to Oracle Support for Accessibility

Oracle customers that have purchased support have access to electronic support through My
Oracle Support. For information, visit <https://www.oracle.com/corporate/accessibility/learning-support.html#support-tab>.

### Diversity and Inclusion

Oracle is fully committed to diversity and inclusion. Oracle respects and values having a
diverse workforce that increases thought leadership and innovation. As part of our
initiative to build a more inclusive culture that positively impacts our employees,
customers, and partners, we are working to remove insensitive terms from our products and
documentation. We are also mindful of the necessity to maintain compatibility with our
customers' existing technologies and the need to ensure continuity of service as Oracle's
offerings and industry standards evolve. Because of these technical constraints, our effort
to remove insensitive terms is ongoing and will take time and external cooperation.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/install/install-InstallingandUpgradingOracleLinuxManagerServers.html -->

WARNING:

The software described in this documentation is supported for a limited period under Extended Support. Oracle Linux 7 is now in Extended Support. See
[Oracle Linux Extended Support](https://www.oracle.com/a/ocom/docs/linux/oracle-linux-extended-support-ds.pdf) and
[Oracle Open Source Support Policies](https://www.oracle.com/us/support/library/enterprise-linux-support-policies-069172.pdf)
for more information.

Consider using OS Management Hub to manage operating system infrastructure. See
[OS Management Hub](https://www.oracle.com/cloud/compute/os-management/)
for more information.

This chapter describes how to install and upgrade Oracle Linux Manager
servers.

For information about the types of support that Oracle provides for Oracle Linux Manager
2.10, refer to the About Oracle Linux Manager Server and Client Support section of the [Oracle Linux Manager: Release Notes for
Release 2.10](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/relnotes/) .

### Oracle Linux Manager Server Requirements

As the primary component in the entire setup, Oracle Linux Manager sever
has different sets of requirements to efficiently manage client
systems that are registered to the server.

#### Oracle Linux Requirements

Complete the following requirements for the designated
Oracle Linux Manager server:

- Install Oracle Linux 7 by using either the
  Minimal or
  Basic Server profile.
- Before installing Oracle Linux Manager, remove the
  `jta` package which prevents Oracle Linux Manager
  services from starting.
- Use only those packages that are provided by Oracle from the Oracle Linux yum server at
  <https://yum.oracle.com>. No third-party package repositories are required.
- Update your system with the latest packages from the
  Oracle Linux yum server.
- Do not register an Oracle Linux Manager 2.10 server
  or client with ULN. Instead, register an
  Oracle Linux Manager 2.10 server as a client of itself to receive updates.

#### Memory Requirements

An Oracle Linux Manager server should have a minimum of 8 GB of memory.
If the server also runs the database that stores the Oracle Linux Manager
repository, this memory requirement is in addition
to what is required to run the database.

In large deployments where Oracle Linux Manager server services and maintains a large number
of clients, custom channels, and so on, consider installing 16 GB of RAM. Increasing RAM
improves performance in operations such as building repositories, which requires sizeable
amounts of memory. See Memory Considerations When Building Repositories in [Oracle Linux Manager: Client Life Cycle Management Guide for
Release 2.10](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/admin/) .

#### Storage Requirements

To preserve errata mapping, by default, Oracle Linux Manager maintains
all of the available versions of available packages in each
software channel that you configure. As a result, the storage
requirements for an Oracle Linux Manager server can be significant,
depending on the number of major versions and architectures
that you choose to support. Typically, the Oracle Linux binary
repositories require approximately 60 GB for each combination
of Oracle Linux release and architecture. An extra 40 GB is
required for source packages and 80 GB is required for Ksplice
updates for each combination of Oracle Linux release and
architecture.

With Oracle Linux Manager 2.10, you can reduce the storage requirements
considerably by using the following command when synchronizing
packages:

```
sudo spacewalk-repo-sync --latest
```

The server then synchronizes only the latest packages that are
available at the time of synchronization. It does not remove
older packages from the channel.

Caution:

If the synchronization interval is large, you might miss a
particular version of a package. Errata handling, which
manages errata that are associated with specific package
versions, would be affected. If errata consistency is
important to you, Oracle recommends that you do
not use the `--latest`
option. However, using the option with a Ksplice channel is
an exception because its packages are always cumulative.

Important:

DO NOT use the
`--latest` option when synchronizing
module-enabled channels such as
`ol8_AppStream`. The mechanism that
underlies this option is not module-aware and if used, will
skip required packages.

An Oracle Linux Manager server stores the packages that it hosts under
the `/var/satellite/redhat` directory
hierarchy. You should plan how to best configure the
`/var` file system before installing
Oracle Linux Manager. For example, if you set up `/var`
as an `ext4` or `XFS` file
system by using Logical Volume Manager (LVM), you can expand
the storage when required.

Packages are never removed from Oracle Linux repositories. Thus, the
space that is required for each repository always increases.
You should actively monitor the available disk space on the
server.

#### Networking Requirements

The following are network requirements to install an Oracle
Linux Manager server:

- Static IP address
- Correctly configured forward and reverse DNS host name,
  with the following specifications:

  Caution:

  Noncompliance with these specifications for the server's
  host name can cause Oracle Linux Manager to fail in proxy
  communications, inter-server synchronization (ISS),
  certificate validation, and other areas of operation.

  - The host name of the server must
    not contain
    uppercase letters.
  - While the `/etc/hostname` file
    contains the short name of the host, the
    `/etc/hosts` file
    must
    specify the host's FQDN, as shown in bold in the
    following example:

    ```
    cat /etc/hostname
    ```

    ```
    olmsvr
    ```

    ```
    cat /etc/hosts
    ```

    ```
    127.0.0.1   localhost localhost.localdomain localhost4 localhost4.localdomain4
    ::1         localhost localhost.localdomain localhost6 localhost6.localdomain6
    192.168.1.3 olmsvr.mydom.com olmsvr
    ```

    Note that Oracle Linux Manager does not consider
    `.local` and
    `.localdomain` to be valid domain
    names.
- Port numbers

  The following table describes the network ports that an
  Oracle Linux Manager server uses, depending on its configuration.

  | Port/Protocol | Direction | Purpose |
  | --- | --- | --- |
  | `69`/`udp` | Inbound | TFTP (if PXE provisioning support is required) |
  | `80`/`tcp` | Inbound and outbound | HTTP access |
  | `443`/`tcp` | Inbound and outbound | HTTPS access |
  | `5222`/`tcp` | Inbound | Push support to Oracle Linux Manager clients (if required) |
  | `5269`/`tcp` | Inbound | Push support to Oracle Linux Manager proxies (if required) |
- Configured network time synchronization

  Configure Oracle Linux Manager server, proxies, and clients to use a
  network time synchronization mechanism such as the Network
  Time Protocol (NTP) or the Precision Time Protocol (PTP).
  To establish a Secure Socket Layer (SSL) based connection,
  Oracle Linux Manager requires that the system times on server and
  client systems be consistent to within 120 seconds.

  For more information, see Configuring Network Time in [Oracle Linux 7: Setting Up Networking](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/7/network/).

#### Database Requirements and Configuration Instructions

Oracle supports only Oracle Database for
use with Oracle Linux Manager. Thus, while you can use
PostgreSQL with the software, this setup is not covered by
Oracle support. Additionally, Oracle does not provide any
tools for migrating from an unsupported database.

In general, you should use supported Oracle databases when using Oracle Linux Manager 2.10.
For specific supported versions, see Oracle Database Support in [Oracle Linux Manager: Release Notes for
Release 2.10](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/relnotes/) . Oracle provides a restricted-use license for the
use of Oracle Database Enterprise Edition with Oracle Linux Manager 2.10 for Oracle Linux
support customers.

For more information about Oracle licenses, see [Oracle Linux 7: Licensing Information User Manual](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/7/licenses/).

Important:

Providing comprehensive information about operating supported databases is outside the
scope of this documentation. For any database operation such as installation, configuration,
upgrade, and other related tasks, consult your Oracle Database administrator and the Oracle
Database documentation at <https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/database.html>.

##### Oracle Database Installation Requirements

Prior to installing Oracle Linux Manager server, you must install an
Oracle Database server, make this server available, and
ensure that it is operational.

You can download Oracle database software from Oracle at <https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/oracle-database-software-downloads.html>.

The following database installation requirements apply to
Oracle Linux Manager server installations:

- For fresh installations of the server, use Oracle Database Enterprise edition 19c or
  Oracle Database Enterprise edition 12c.
- For upgrades to the server, Oracle strongly suggests that you
  use Oracle Database Enterprise edition 19c.

##### Database Sizing Requirements

When determining the amount of space Oracle Linux Manager database
requires, be sure to include sizing estimates in your
overall calculation for the following:

- Number of client systems that will be served by the
  server (typically, 250 KiB per client system).
- Number of channels allocated to each client system
  (about 500 KiB per channel).
- Number of packages that each channel will contain
  (approximately 230 KiB per package in the channel. A
  channel with 5000 packages would require 1.1 GiB).

For example, if you have a large Oracle Linux Manager server that is
serving 10,000 systems, and each system has four channels
containing 12,000 packages per-channel, then 2.5 GiB would
be required for the clients, and 11 GiB would be required
for the channels.

##### Oracle Database Configuration

The following are general guidelines for configuring Oracle
Database. You can perform these steps during or after the
database installation. Always consult with your Oracle
database administrator for matters related to installing or
configuring the database for your particular environment.

- The database must use the `AL32UTF8`
  character set that supports Unicode.
- The database must have an Oracle Linux Manager user.

  For every Oracle Linux Manager server that shares the same database
  server, you must create a separate Oracle Linux Manager user.
- The Oracle Linux Manager user must be assigned the
  `CONNECT` and
  `RESOURCE` roles.
- The Oracle Linux Manager user must have the following system
  privileges:

  - `ALTER SESSION`
  - `CREATE SYNONYM`
  - `CREATE TABLE`
  - `CREATE TRIGGER`
  - `CREATE VIEW`
  - `UNLIMITED TABLESPACE`
  - `SELECT ON V_$PARAMETER`

###### Creating an Oracle Linux Manager User on an On-Premise Database

The steps to follow depend on whether you connect to the
container database first or directly to the pluggable
database.

For all cases, you must log in to your Oracle account
first before performing these steps.

- If you are connecting to the container database first,
  choose one of the following methods:

  - Running the `ALTER SESSION`
    command before creating the user

    1. Log in to the container database as a database
       administrator (typically,
       `SYS` or
       `SYSDBA`).

       ```
       cd $ORACLE_HOME/bin
       sqlplus / as SYSDBA
       ```
    2. Type the following command:

       ```
       SQL> ALTER SESSION SET CONTAINER = DEVPDB;
       ```
    3. For each Oracle Linux Manager user that you need to set
       up, run the following commands:

       ```
       SQL> create user olm_user identified by olm_passwd;
       SQL> grant connect,resource to olm_user;
       SQL> grant alter session, create synonym, create table, create trigger, create view to olm_user;
       SQL> grant select on v_$parameter to olm_user 
       SQL> grant unlimited tablespace to olm_user;
       ```
  - Creating the user directly

    1. Log in to the container database as a database
       administrator (typically,
       `SYS` or
       `SYSDBA`).

       ```
       cd $ORACLE_HOME/bin
       sqlplus / as SYSDBA
       ```
    2. For each Oracle Linux Manager user that you need to set
       up, run the following commands:

       Important:

       Make sure to use the required
       `c##` prefix for the user
       name.

       ```
       SQL> create user c##olm_user identified by olm_passwd;
       SQL> grant connect,resource to c##olm_user;
       SQL> grant alter session, create synonym, create table, create trigger, create view to olm_user;
       SQL> grant select on v_$parameter to olm_user 
       SQL> grant unlimited tablespace to c##olm_user;
       ```
- If you are connecting directly to the pluggable
  database:

  1. Log in to the PDB as a database administrator
     (typically, `SYS` or
     `SYSDBA`).

     ```
     cd $ORACLE_HOME/bin
     sqlplus / as SYSDBA
     ```
  2. For each Oracle Linux Manager user that you need to set up,
     run the following commands:

     ```
     SQL> create user olm_user identified by olm_passwd;
     SQL> grant connect,resource to olm_user;
     SQL> grant alter session, create synonym, create table, create trigger, create view to olm_user;
     SQL> grant select on v_$parameter to olm_user 
     SQL> grant unlimited tablespace to olm_user;
     ```

### Installing Oracle Linux Manager Server

Follow these steps to install Oracle Linux Manager server software:

1. Ensure that the Oracle Database is running.

   See [Oracle Database Installation Requirements](install-InstallingandUpgradingOracleLinuxManagerServers.html#svr-odbreq).
2. Install Oracle Instant Client.

   1. Download the latest 18.5 release of the following
      Instant Client RPM packages.

      - Instant Client Package (Basic)
      - Instant Client Package (SQL\*Plus)

      The packages can be downloaded from <https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/instant-client.html>.
   2. Install the Instant Client packages.

      ```
      sudo yum install oracle-instantclient18.5-basic-18.5.0.0.0-3.x86_64.rpm oracle-instantclient18.5-sqlplus-18.5.0.0.0-3.x86_64.rpm
      ```
   3. Add the library path to `ldconfig`.

      ```
      echo "/usr/lib/oracle/18.5/client64/lib" | sudo tee /etc/ld.so.conf.d/oracle-instantclient18.5.conf 
      sudo ldconfig
      ```
3. Ensure that the `jta` package is not
   installed.

   1. Remove the `jta` package if it is
      installed on the system.

      ```
      sudo yum list installed | grep jta  
      sudo yum remove jta
      ```
   2. To prevent any future accidental installation of the
      package, do one of the following:

      - Add the `jta` package to the
        `exclude` directive in the
        `/etc/yum.conf` file as follows:

        ```
        exclude=jta*
        ```
      - Disable the Oracle Linux 7 `addons` channel
        (`[ol7_addons]`).

        ```
        sudo yum-config-manager --disable ol7_addons
        ```
4. Configure the system firewall.

   ```
   sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=69/udp
   sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=80/tcp
   sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=443/tcp
   sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=5222/tcp
   sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=5269/tcp
   sudo systemctl reload firewalld
   ```
5. Install the latest `oracle-release-el7`
   package.

   ```
   sudo yum install oracle-release-el7
   ```

   If your system is running an Oracle Linux release that is earlier
   than Oracle Linux 7 Update 7, run the following additional command to
   make the system use the modular yum repository
   configuration.

   ```
   sudo /usr/bin/ol_yum_configure.sh
   ```
6. Install and enable the Oracle Linux Manager yum repository.

   ```
   sudo yum install oracle-linux-manager-server-release-el7
   sudo yum-config-manager --enable ol7_optional_latest
   ```
7. Install the following packages for enabling Oracle Linux Manager server
   to use Oracle Database.

   ```
   sudo yum install spacewalk-oracle spacecmd spacewalk-utils
   ```

   Note:

   As part of Oracle Linux Manager installation process, all of the
   Oracle Linux yum server configuration, as well as ULN configuration, are
   disabled. After the installation, Oracle Linux Manager handles this
   configuration henceforth.

   If you need to re-enable yum repository configuration
   after an installation, but before
   you have configured any repositories in Oracle Linux Manager, you
   can temporarily rename any affected yum repository
   configuration files to enable them again, for example:

   ```
   sudo mv /etc/yum.repos.d/oracle-linux-ol7.repo.rpmsave /etc/yum.repos.d/oracle-linux-ol7.repo
   ```

   Remember to disable the yum repository configuration
   files again after you have configured repositories
   within Oracle Linux Manager.
8. Configure Oracle Linux Manager to use the Oracle Database.

   ```
   sudo spacewalk-setup --external-oracle
   ```

   The command initiates an interactive session that prompts
   you for information about your current database.

   Global Database Name or SID
   :   Name of the database when it was set up. If necessary,
       inquire with your database administrator for the
       information.

   Database hostname [localhost]
   :   FQDN of the database system if that system is separate
       from Oracle Linux Manager server. Otherwise, this prompt is
       skipped.

   Username and Password
   :   Credentials of the database Oracle Linux Manager user.

       Caution:

       The user name you specify must match the name you
       previously created when following the steps in
       [Oracle Database Configuration](install-InstallingandUpgradingOracleLinuxManagerServers.html#svr-odbcfg). For example, if the
       name has the `c##` prefix, that
       name must also be specified here.

   Admin Email Address
   :   Email address of the Oracle Linux Manager administrator.

   Organization
   :   Name of your Oracle Linux Manager organization.

   Organization Unit
   :   Oracle Linux Manager server's FQDN.

   Email address
   :   Email address of person managing the certificates, if
       different from the Admin Email Address.

   Location prompts
   :   Information identifying the location of Oracle Linux Manager
       server.

   The following is an example of the interactive session:

   ```
   sudo spacewalk-setup --external-oracle
   ```

   ```
   * Setting up SELinux..
   * Setting up Oracle environment.
   * Setting up database.
   ** Database: Setting up database connection for Oracle backend.
   Global Database Name or SID (requires tnsnames.ora)? company.mydom.com
   Database hostname [localhost]? olmmanager-db.mydom.com
   Username? olm_user
   Password? olm_passwd
   ** Database: Testing database connection. 
   ** Database: Populating database. 
   *** Progress: ############################################################ 
   * Configuring tomcat.
   * Setting up users and groups.
   ** GPG: Initializing GPG and importing key.
   ** GPG: Creating /root/.gnupg directory
   You must enter an email address. 
   Admin Email Address? my.email@mydom.com
   * Performing initial configuration.
   ** Package installation: Locking required rpm versions. 
   * Configuring apache SSL virtual host. 
   Should setup configure apache's default ssl server for you
                                           (saves original ssl.conf) [Y]? y 
   ** /etc/httpd/conf.d/ssl.conf has been backed up to ssl.conf-swsave 
   * Configuring jabberd.
   * Creating SSL certificates. 
   CA certificate password? cert_passwd
   Re-enter CA certificate password? cert_passwd
   Cname alias of the machine (comma separated)?
   Organization? Company Demo 
   Organization Unit [olmsvr.mydom.com]? olmsvr.mydom.com
   Email Address [your.email@domain.com]? my.email@mydom.com 
   City? city
   State? state
   Country code (Examples: "US", "JP", "IN", or type "?" to see a list)? country
   ** SSL: Generating CA certificate. 
   ** SSL: Deploying CA certificate. 
   ** SSL: Generating server certificate. 
   ** SSL: Storing SSL certificates. 
   * Deploying configuration files. 
   * Update configuration in database. 
   * Setting up Cobbler..
   Cobbler requires tftp and xinetd services be turned on for PXE provisioning functionality.
   Enable these services [Y]? y
   * Restarting services. 
   Installation complete. 
   Visit https://olmsvr.mydom.com to create the Oracle Linux Manager administrator account.
   ```
9. Verify that Oracle Linux Manager services are running.

   In the following example, the status is displayed in bold.

   ```
   sudo /usr/sbin/spacewalk-service status
   ```

   ```
   â— tomcat.service - Apache Tomcat Web Application Container
      Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/tomcat.service; enabled; vendor preset: disabled)
      Active: active (running) since Thu 2020-01-16 22:37:14 UTC; 18h ago
    Main PID: 29861 (java)
      CGroup: /system.slice/tomcat.service
              â””â”€29861 /usr/lib/jvm/jre/bin/java -ea -Xms256m -Xmx256m -Djava.awt.headless=true 
   -Dorg.xml.sax.driver=org.apache.xerces.parsers.SAXParser -
   ...

   â— httpd.service - The Apache HTTP Server
      Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/httpd.service; enabled; vendor preset: disabled)
      Active: active (running) since Thu 2020-01-16 22:37:28 UTC; 18h ago
        Docs: man:httpd(8)
              man:apachectl(8)
    Main PID: 30034 (httpd)
      Status: "Total requests: 2504; Current requests/sec: 0; Current traffic:   0 B/sec"
      CGroup: /system.slice/httpd.service
              â”œâ”€30034 /usr/sbin/httpd -DFOREGROUND
              â”œâ”€30036 /usr/sbin/httpd -DFOREGROUND
              ...

   â— rhn-search.service - Oracle Linux Manager search engine
      Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/rhn-search.service; enabled; vendor preset: disabled)
      Active: inactive (dead) since Thu 2020-01-16 22:37:32 UTC; 18h ago
     Process: 30181 ExecStop=/usr/sbin/rhn-search stop (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)
     Process: 30040 ExecStart=/usr/sbin/rhn-search start (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)
    Main PID: 30073 (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)

   â— cobblerd.service - Cobbler daemon
      Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/cobblerd.service; enabled; vendor preset: disabled)
      Active: active (running) since Thu 2020-01-16 22:37:28 UTC; 18h ago
    Main PID: 30038 (cobblerd)
      CGroup: /system.slice/cobblerd.service
              â””â”€30038 /usr/bin/python2 -s /usr/bin/cobblerd --no-daemonize
   ...
   ```
10. At the completion of the installation, ensure that only the
    following repositories are enabled on the system:

    - `UEKR5` or `UEKR6`
    - `ol7_latest`
    - `ol7_optional_latest`
    - `ol7_oraclelinuxmanager210_client`
    - `ol7_oraclelinuxmanager210_server`

    You can verify enabled repositories by running the following
    command:

    ```
    sudo yum repolist
    ```

### Configuring a Newly Installed Oracle Linux Manager Server

Of the configuration tasks described in this section,
configuring the initial organization and the Oracle Linux Manager
administrator is mandatory. The other tasks are optional but
recommended.

#### Creating the Initial Organization and Oracle Linux Manager Administrator Account

After completing the installation, you must create an initial
organization and the main Oracle Linux Manageradministrator account.

For more information about the concept of organization, see [Oracle Linux Manager: Concepts Guide for
Release 2.10](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/gsg/) .

1. Open a browser and access Oracle Linux Manager server's URL, which is
   the server's FQDN, such as
   `https://olmsvr.mydom.com`.
2. If prompted, select to trust the SSL certificate.

   The Create Organization page opens automatically.
3. Enter the required values in the appropriate fields to
   create the organization and its administrator.
4. Click Create
   Organization.

   The administrator you created is automatically logged in
   and the Overview page is displayed.

   Use the web interface to perform additional configuration tasks. For example, see [Setting Up Primary-Worker Configurations With Oracle Linux Manager Web Interface](install-ConfiguringInterServerSynchronizationforOracleLinuxManagerServers.html#ms-config-webui) as well as [Oracle Linux Manager: Client Life Cycle Management Guide for
   Release 2.10](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/admin/) .

#### Replacing a Self-Signed SSL Certificate

You can use certificates for individual Oracle Linux Manager servers or
proxies. Alternatively, you can also use wildcard certificates
for all Oracle Linux Manager servers or proxies in the domains that the
wildcard certificates cover.

The following procedure describes how to replace self-signed
certificates or expired CA-signed certificates with
certificates that have been signed by a Certificate Authority
(CA).

1. Create a backup of the system's existing SSL
   configuration.

   ```
   sudo tar -cvf SSLconfig.tar /etc/httpd/conf/ssl.* /etc/pki/spacewalk/jabberd/server.pem /root/ssl-build /var/www/html/pub
   ```
2. Obtain a server certificate by using one of the following
   methods:

   - Obtain a server certificate from a CA and install this
     certificate in the SSL build hierarchy on the system:

     1. Send the Certificate Signing Request (CSR) file
        `/root/ssl-build/olmsvr/server.csr`
        to the CA, where olmsvr
        is the simple name,
        not the FQDN,
        of Oracle Linux Manager server or the proxy.

        After validating your request, the CA returns a
        signed server certificate file.
     2. Create a backup of the signed server certificate
        file.
     3. If necessary, convert the certificate to a Privacy
        Enhanced Mail (PEM) format.

        - If your certificate is DER-formatted, convert
          it to PEM format.

          ```
          sudo openssl x509 -inform der -text -in certificate_file Readable content
          sudo openssl x509 -inform der -in server.cer -out server.pem
          ```
        - If a PEM-formatted certificate is not
          generated from a Linux or UNIX based system,
          remove `^M` characters that
          might exist in that certificate.

          ```
          sudo sed -i -e 's/\r//' server.pem
          ```

          As an alternative, you can also run the
          following command, provided you installed the
          `dos2unix` package:

          ```
          sudo dos2unix server.pem
          ```
     4. Copy the PEM-formatted server certificate file to
        `/root/ssl-build/olmsvr/server.crt`.

        ```
        sudo cp server.pem /root/ssl-build/olmsvr/server.crt
        ```

        This command overwrites the original file in that
        destination directory.
   - Obtain a server certificate using an external tool:

     1. Obtain both the private key and the signed
        certificate from the external tool in PEM format,
        then copy both to
        `/root/ssl-build/olmsvr`.
     2. If the private key has an existing password,
        replace that key as follows:

        ```
        sudo openssl rsa -in keyfilewithpasswd.key -out /root/ssl-build/olmsvr/server.key
        ```

        This step ensures that Oracle Linux Manager services can
        start unattended.
3. Add the CA public certificate to the
   `/root/ssl-build` directory as the
   `RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT` file by using
   one of the following methods:

   - If available, obtain the CA chain certificate from the
     CA that issued the server certificate. Copy this
     certificate file to
     `/root/ssl-build/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT`:

     ```
     sudo cp ca_chain.pem /root/ssl-build/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT
     ```
   - If the CA chain certificate is not available from the
     issuing CA, create the CA chain certificate as
     follows:

     1. Obtain the root CA public certificate and the
        intermediate CA public certificates from the
        issuing CA.
     2. Concateneate the two certificates you just
        downloaded to
        `/root/ssl-build/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT`.

        Use the followng command exactly as shown:

        ```
        sudo cat intermediate_ca.pem root_ca.pem > /root/ssl-build/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT
        ```

        - intermediate\_ca.pem:
          intermediate public certificate file of the CA
          that issued your server certificate
        - root\_ca.pem: public
          certificate file of the root CA

        In the the chain certificate, the intermediate
        certificate
        must
        precede the certificate of the root CA.
        The CA chain certificate does not work if its
        component certificates are not in the correct
        order.

        Note:

        In the rare case where a root CA signed the
        server certificate directly, then only the
        root\_ca.pem would be
        contained in the chain certificate:

        ```
        sudo cp root_ca.pem /root/ssl-build/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT
        ```
4. Validate the server certificate against the CA public
   certificate.

   ```
   sudo openssl verify -CAfile /root/ssl-build/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT /root/ssl-build/olmsvr/server.crt
   ```

   If the command returns an error, verify that you correctly
   created `RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT` and
   also verify that the date and time on the server are
   configured correctly.
5. Store the CA public certificate in the Oracle Linux Manager database
   so that it is available for provisioning client systems.

   ```
   sudo rhn-ssl-dbstore -v --ca-cert=/root/ssl-build/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT
   ```

   If the command returns an error, run the command again,
   specifying a higher level of debugging, such as
   `-vvv`, to gather more information about
   the problem.
6. Prepare the web server SSL package for installation:

   1. Generate the web server SSL package., for example:

      ```
      sudo rhn-ssl-tool --gen-server --rpm-only --dir /root/ssl-build
      ```

      ```
      ...working...

      Generating web server's SSL key pair/set RPM:
          /root/ssl-build/olmsvr/rhn-org-httpd-ssl-key-pair-olmsvr-1.0-rev.src.rpm
          /root/ssl-build/olmsvr/rhn-org-httpd-ssl-key-pair-olmsvr-1.0-rev.noarch.rpm

      The most current Oracle Linux Manager Proxy Server installation process against RHN hosted
      requires the upload of an SSL tar archive that contains the CA SSL public
      certificate and the web server's key set.

      Generating the web server's SSL key set and CA SSL public certificate archive:
          /root/ssl-build/olmsvr/rhn-org-httpd-ssl-archive-olmsvr-1.0-rev.tar

      Deploy the server's SSL key pair/set RPM:
          (NOTE: the Red Hat Satellite or Proxy installers may do this step for you.)
          The "noarch" RPM needs to be deployed to the machine working as a
          web server, or Red Hat Satellite, or Oracle Linux Manager Proxy.
          Presumably 'olmsvr.mydom.com'.
      ```
   2. (Optional) List the files that the packages install.

      See the following two examples:

      ```
      sudo rpm -qlp /root/ssl-build/olmsvr/rhn-org-httpd-ssl-key-pair-olmsvr-1.0-rev.src.rpm
      ```

      ```
      rhn-org-httpd-ssl-key-pair-olmsvr-1.0.tar.gz
      rhn-org-httpd-ssl-key-pair-olmsvr.spec
      ```

      ```
      sudo rpm -qlp /root/ssl-build/olmsvr/rhn-org-httpd-ssl-key-pair-olmsvr-1.0-rev.noarch.rpm
      ```

      ```
      /etc/httpd/conf/ssl.crt/server.crt
      /etc/httpd/conf/ssl.csr/server.csr
      /etc/httpd/conf/ssl.key/server.key
      /etc/pki/spacewalk/jabberd/server.pem
      ```
   3. Install the web server SSL `noarch`
      package.

      ```
      sudo yum install /root/ssl-build/olmsvr/rhn-org-httpd-ssl-key-pair-olmsvr-1.0-rev.noarch.rpm
      ```
7. Generate the public CA certificate package and make both
   the package and the CA public certificate file available
   to clients.

   1. Generate the public CA certificate package, for
      example:

      ```
      sudo rhn-ssl-tool --gen-ca --dir=/root/ssl-build --rpm-only
      ```

      ```
      ...working...
      Generating CA public certificate RPM:
          /root/ssl-build/rhn-org-trusted-ssl-cert-1.0-rev.src.rpm
          /root/ssl-build/rhn-org-trusted-ssl-cert-1.0-rev.noarch.rpm

      Make the public CA certificate publicly available:
          (NOTE: the Red Hat Satellite or Proxy installers may do this step for you.)
          The "noarch" RPM and raw CA certificate can be made publicly accessible
          by copying it to the /var/www/html/pub directory of your Red Hat Satellite or
          Proxy server.
      ```
   2. (Optional) List the files that the packages install.

      The following are two examples:

      ```
      sudo rpm -qlp /root/ssl-build/rhn-org-trusted-ssl-cert-1.0-rev.src.rpm
      ```

      ```
      rhn-org-trusted-ssl-cert-1.0.tar.gz
      rhn-org-trusted-ssl-cert.spec
      ```

      ```
      sudo rpm -qlp /root/ssl-build/rhn-org-trusted-ssl-cert-1.0-rev.noarch.rpm
      ```

      ```
      /usr/share/rhn/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT
      ```
   3. If an Oracle Linux Manager server or proxy is also configured as
      a client, install the public CA certificate
      `noarch` package on this system.

      ```
      sudo yum install /root/ssl-build/pub/rhn-org-trusted-ssl-cert-1.0-rev.noarch.rpm
      ```

      The public CA certificate is installed as
      `/usr/share/rhn/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT`.
   4. Copy the
      `rhn-org-trusted-ssl-cert-1.0-rev.noarch.rpm`
      package and CA public certificate file to
      `/var/www/html/pub` for access by
      clients.

      ```
      sudo cp /root/ssl-build/rhn-org-trusted-ssl-cert-1.0-rev.noarch.rpm /var/www/html/pub
      sudo cp /root/ssl-build/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT /var/www/html/pub
      ```
   5. Verify that the installed copies of
      `RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT` digest in
      the different locations are identical. The locations
      are `/root/ssl-build`,
      `/usr/share`, and
      `/var/www/html/pub`, for example:

      ```
      sudo sha1sum /root/ssl-build/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT /usr/share/rhn/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT /var/www/html/pub/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT
      ```

      ```
      74380a372bfa55d8ab7579bf01502c874b8aae84
                            /root/ssl-build/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT
      74380a372bfa55d8ab7579bf01502c874b8aae84
                            /usr/share/rhn/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT
      74380a372bfa55d8ab7579bf01502c874b8aae84
                            /var/www/html/pub/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT
      ```
8. On an Oracle Linux Manager server, stop Oracle Linux Manager services, clear the
   `jabberd` database, then restart the
   services.

   ```
   sudo /usr/sbin/spacewalk-service stop
   sudo rm -Rf /var/lib/jabberd/db/*
   sudo /usr/sbin/spacewalk-service start
   ```
9. On Oracle Linux Manager proxies, restart the proxy services.

   ```
   sudo /usr/sbin/rhn-proxy restart
   ```
10. On the remaining Oracle Linux Manager clients, download and install
    the public CA certificate package.

    ```
    wget https://olmsvr/pub/rhn-org-trusted-ssl-cert-1.0-rev.noarch.rpm
    sudo yum install -y rhn-org-trusted-ssl-cert-1.0-rev.noarch.rpm
    ```

    Note:

    If you replace the server certificate later because it's revoked or expired, you don't
    need to update the public CA certificate on the clients unless you change the CA that
    signs the server certificate.

#### Configuring a Web Proxy for an Oracle Linux Manager Server

If needed, configure the web proxy by using one of the
following methods after you have
installed Oracle Linux Manager:

- Edit the `/etc/rhn/rhn.conf` file and
  configure the specific web proxy parameters as shown by
  the settings in bold:

  ```
  server.satellite.http_proxy = webproxy.mydom.com:80
  server.satellite.http_proxy_username = proxy-username
  server.satellite.http_proxy_password = proxy-password
  ```
- In the Oracle Linux Manager web interface, select the
  Admin
  tab, then Oracle Linux Manager
  Configuration, and enter the appropriate values
  to the HTTP proxy fields.

### Upgrading to Oracle Linux Manager Server

This section provides information for upgrading Spacewalk 2.7
server to Oracle Linux Manager 2.10.

Attention:

If you are currently running earlier Spacewalk versions, such
as Spacewalk 2.4 or Spacewalk 2.6, you must first upgrade to
Spacewalk 2.7 before proceeding with the steps in this
section. For instructions, see Upgrading a
Spacewalk Server in [Spacewalk for Oracle® Linux: Installation Guide for Release 2.7](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/spacewalk/2.7/install/).

#### Preparing to Upgrade

You must use Oracle databases that are supported in Oracle Linux Manager. For a list of
supported databases in Oracle Linux Manager 2.10, see Oracle Database Support in [Oracle Linux Manager: Release Notes for
Release 2.10](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/relnotes/) .

Before you upgrade, check the following elements in their
respective XML files:

- `<driver>` in the
  `/etc/jabberd/sm.xml` file
- `<module>` in the
  `/etc/jabberd/c2s.xml` file

If both elements in the two files specify
`sqlite`, you can proceed to
[Performing the Upgrade](install-InstallingandUpgradingOracleLinuxManagerServers.html#svr-upgrade-steps). If not, then complete the
following steps:

1. Stop the `osa-dispatcher` and
   `jabberd` services.

   ```
   sudo systemctl stop osa-dispatcher
   sudo systemctl stop jabberd
   ```
2. Specify `sqlite` for the
   `<driver>` and
   `<module>` elements in the files as
   shown:

   - `/etc/jabberd/sm.xml`:
     `<driver>sqlite</driver>`.
   - `/etc/jabberd/c2s.xml`:
     `<module>sqlite</module>`.
3. Create the SQLite database.

   ```
   sudo sqlite3 /var/lib/jabberd/db/sqlite.db < /usr/share/jabberd/db-setup.sqlite
   sudo chown jabber:jabber /var/lib/jabberd/db/sqlite.db
   ```
4. Start the `jabberd` and
   `osa-dispatcher` services.

   ```
   sudo systemctl start jabberd
   sudo systemctl start osa-dispatcher
   ```
5. Check `/var/log/messages` to ensure
   that SQLite is being used.

   ```
   sudo cat /var/log/messages | grep sqlite
   ```
6. On client servers, make the `osad`
   service re-authenticate to `jabberd`.

   If you previously registered client servers on which you
   then installed the `osad` service, remove
   the `osad-auth.conf` file first before
   restarting the service, as follows:

   ```
   sudo systemctl stop osad
   sudo rm -f /etc/sysconfig/rhn/osad-auth.conf
   sudo systemctl start osad
   ```

#### Performing the Upgrade

Note:

If your system is already running Spacewalk 2.10, see
[Switching From Spacewalk 2.10 to Oracle Linux Manager 2.10](install-InstallingandUpgradingOracleLinuxManagerServers.html#olm-switching) for information
to convert it to Oracle Linux Manager.

Upgrade to Oracle Linux Manager 2.10 as follows:

1. Backup all current configurations.

   - Back up all of the Spacewalk 2.7 configuration files
     in the following directories:

     - `/etc/jabberd`
     - `/etc/rhn`
     - `/etc/sysconfig/rhn`
     - `/root/ssl-build`

     ```
     sudo tar -cvf preSWupgrade.tar /etc/jabberd /etc/rhn /etc/sysconfig/rhn /root/ssl-build
     ```
   - Back up the Spacewalk 2.7 database.

     This step is recommended as a precaution in case the
     upgrade does not complete successfully.

     To use the Recovery Manager (RMAN) to create a backup, refer to your database
     version's Backup and Recovery User's Guide in <https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/index.html>.
2. Change the way the server that is currently running
   Spacewalk 2.7 Server obtains packages depending on the
   server's current configuration.

   - If the Spacewalk 2.7 server is registered as a client
     of itself:

     1. Create an Oracle Linux Manager server channel as a child of
        the Oracle Linux 7 base channel.

        For more information about configuring channels, see Creating Software Channels
        and Repositories in [Oracle Linux Manager: Client Life Cycle Management Guide for
        Release 2.10](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/admin/) .
     2. Create an Oracle Linux Manager server repository that
        accesses the corresponding server channel on the
        Oracle Linux yum server server
        (`https://yum.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/oraclelinuxmanager210/server/x86_64/`)
        , by using the same GPG settings as for Oracle Linux 7.
     3. Associate Oracle Linux Manager server repository with its
        corresponding server channel and synchronize the
        repository's packages from the Oracle Linux yum server.
     4. Change the channel subscription from the Spacewalk
        server to Oracle Linux Manager server.
     5. Configure and synchronize the following additional
        channels:

        - Oracle Linux 7 Server Latest
        - Oracle Linux 7 Server Optional Latest
        - Oracle Instant Client for Oracle Linux 7
        - Oracle Linux Manager (formerly Spacewalk) Client 2.10 for
          Oracle Linux 7
        - Oracle Linux Manager (formerly Spacewalk) Server 2.10 for
          Oracle Linux 7
   - If the Spacewalk 2.7 server obtains packages from the
     Oracle Linux yum server:

     1. Disable the Spacewalk server repository for the
        Spacewalk 2.7 release in the Oracle Linux yum server repository
        configuration file.

        Edit the configuration file and set
        `enabled=0`. Or, run the
        following command:

        ```
        sudo yum-config-manager --disable repository
        ```
     2. Required:
        Install the latest
        `oracle-release-el7` package.

        Important:

        You must run
        the following command even if you have recently
        updated the system, in order to successfully run
        the `yum swap` command later in
        this procedure.

        ```
        sudo yum install oracle-release-el7
        ```

        If your system is running an Oracle Linux release that is
        earlier than Oracle Linux 7 Update 7, run the following
        additional command to make the system use the
        modular yum repository configuration:

        ```
        sudo /usr/bin/ol_yum_configure.sh
        ```
     3. Install the
        `oracle-linux-manager-server-release-el7`
        package.

        ```
        sudo yum install oracle-linux-manager-server-release-el7
        ```

        Note:

        The command creates the file
        `/etc/yum.repos.d/oracle-linux-manager-server-ol7.repo`
        if that file does not exist.

        However, if the file already exists, then the
        command leaves that file unmodified and instead
        creates a new file
        `/etc/yum.repos.d/oracle-linux-manager-server-ol7.repo.rpmnew`
        that contains new repository entries for
        Oracle Linux Manager Server. Use the
        `.rpmnew` file to guide you to
        make the necessary modifications to the existing
        `.repo` file.
3. Verify that the correct Oracle Linux Manager repositories are
   enabled, and earlier Spacewalk versions are disabled.

   The
   `/etc/yum.repos.d/oracle-linux-manager-server-ol7.repo`
   file should resemble the following example:

   ```
   [ol7_oraclelinux-manager210_server]
   name=Oracle Linux Manager Server 2.10 for Oracle Linux 7 ($basearch)
   baseurl=https://yum$ociregion.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/oraclelinuxmanager210/server/$basearch/
   gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-oracle
   gpgcheck=1
   enabled=1

   [ol7_oracle-linux-manager210_client]
   name=Oracle Linux Manager Client 2.10 for Oracle Linux 7 ($basearch)
   baseurl=https://yum$ociregion.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/oraclelinuxmanager210/client/$basearch/
   gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-oracle
   gpgcheck=1
   enabled=1
   ```

   The `/etc/yum.repos.d/oracle-spacewalk-server-ol7.repo`
   should resemble the following example:

   ```
   [ol7_spacewalk27_server]
   name=Spacewalk Server 2.7 for Oracle Linux 7 ($basearch)
   baseurl=https://yum$ociregion.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/spacewalk27/server/$basearch/
   gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-oracle
   gpgcheck=1
   enabled=0

   [ol7_spacewalk26_server]
   name=Spacewalk Server 2.6 for Oracle Linux 7 ($basearch)
   baseurl=https://yum$ociregion.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/spacewalk26/server/$basearch/
   gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-oracle
   gpgcheck=1
   enabled=0

   [ol7_spacewalk27_client]
   name=Spacewalk Client 2.7 for Oracle Linux 7 ($basearch)
   baseurl=https://yum$ociregion.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/spacewalk27/client/$basearch/
   gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-oracle
   gpgcheck=1
   enabled=0

   [ol7_spacewalk26_client]
   name=Spacewalk Client 2.6 for Oracle Linux 7 ($basearch)
   baseurl=https://yum$ociregion.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/spacewalk26/client/$basearch/
   gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-oracle
   gpgcheck=1
   enabled=0
   ```
4. Check for any version-locked packages and delete them, for
   example:

   ```
   sudo yum versionlock list
   sudo yum versionlock delete cglib c3p0
   ```
5. Upgrade the Instant Clients.

   ```
   sudo yum swap -- remove oracle-instantclient11.2-basic oracle-instantclient11.2-sqlplus freemarker velocity-tools -- upgrade oracle-instantclient18.5-basic oracle-instantclient18.5-sqlplus spacewalk-oracle
   ```

   Note:

   The command might generate a `No match for
   argument` message with references to
   `freemarker` and
   `veolcity-tools`. These packages might
   have existed in the system from an earlier Spacewalk 2.6
   installation, but which are no longer required by
   Oracle Linux Manager 2.10. Thus, in this case, you can ignore the
   message.
6. Add the library path to `ldconfig`.

   ```
   echo "/usr/lib/oracle/18.5/client64/lib" | sudo tee /etc/ld.so.conf.d/oracle-instantclient18.5.conf 
   sudo ldconfig
   ```
7. Upgrade all the packages.

   ```
   sudo yum upgrade
   ```
8. Stop Oracle Linux Manager services.

   ```
   sudo /sbin/spacewalk-service stop
   ```

   You can safely ignore any SELinux
   `restorecon` messages that are displayed
   when the packages are installed.
9. Upgrade Oracle Linux Manager's database schema.

   ```
   sudo /usr/bin/spacewalk-schema-upgrade
   ```

   The process requires intervention at some point in order
   to continue, as shown in bold in the following example:

   ```
   sudo /usr/bin/spacewalk-schema-upgrade
   ```

   ```
   Please make sure all Oracle Linux Manager services apart from database are stopped.
   ... 
   Schema upgrade: [spacewalk-schema-2.7.28-1.0.2.el7] -> [spacewalk-schema-2.9.11-1.el7]
   Searching for upgrade path: [spacewalk-schema-2.7.28-1.0.2] -> [spacewalk-schema-2.9.11-1]
   Searching for upgrade path: [spacewalk-schema-2.7.28] -> [spacewalk-schema-2.9.11]
   Searching for upgrade path: [spacewalk-schema-2.7] -> [spacewalk-schema-2.9]
   The path: [spacewalk-schema-2.7] -> [spacewalk-schema-2.8] -> [spacewalk-schema-2.9]
   Planning to run spacewalk-sql with [/var/log/spacewalk/schema-upgrade/20200123-165929-script.sql]

   Please make sure you have a valid backup of your database before continuing.

   Hit Enter to continue or Ctrl+C to interrupt: 
   Executing spacewalk-sql, the log is in 
      [/var/log/spacewalk/schema-upgrade/20200406-174429-to-spacewalk-schema-2.10.log].
   The database schema was upgraded to version [spacewalk-schema-2.10.11-1.el7].
   ```

   In the event of a failure, do the following:

   - Check the log files in the
     `/var/log/spacewalk/schema-upgrade`
     directory to determine the cause.
   - Restore the database from backup.
   - Fix the cause of the problem, for example, by
     extending the tablespaces if there is insufficient
     space.
   - Upgrade the database schema.
10. Upgrade Oracle Linux Manager's configuration for the Oracle Database.

    ```
    sudo spacewalk-setup --external-oracle --upgrade
    ```

    The command initiates an interactive session that prompts you for information about your
    current database.
11. Restart Oracle Linux Manager services.

    ```
    sudo /sbin/spacewalk-service start
    ```
12. Perform any necessary postinstallation tasks.

    Review the information in [Configuring a Newly Installed Oracle Linux Manager Server](install-InstallingandUpgradingOracleLinuxManagerServers.html#postinstall).
13. If necessary, upgrade your Oracle database.

    1. Back up the Oracle Linux Manager database again.

       This step is recommended as a precaution in case the
       following step to upgrade the database does not
       complete successfully.

       To use the Recovery Manager (RMAN) to create a backup, refer to your database
       version's Backup and Recovery User's Guide in <https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/index.html>.
    2. Upgrade the Oracle database.

       As indicated in the [Oracle Linux Manager: Release Notes for
       Release 2.10](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/relnotes/) , Oracle Linux
       Manager 2.10 supports only Oracle Database Enterprise edition 12c and Oracle Database
       Enterprise edition 19c. Oracle strongly recommends that you use Oracle Database
       Enterprise edition 19c.

       Important:

       If you are upgrading your Oracle database, do not use the RPM version of
       the Oracle Database Enterprise edition 19c release. Upgrading an OUI-installed
       Oracle database with the RPM version is not supported.

       For this step, consult your database administrator and
       follow the instructions in your database
       documentation.
14. Upgrade the Spacewalk Client to Oracle Linux Manager 2.10
    Client.

    For instructions, refer to the appropriate section in the chapter Registering Client
    Systems With Oracle Linux Manager in [Oracle Linux Manager: Client Life Cycle Management Guide for
    Release 2.10](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/admin/) .

#### Switching From Spacewalk 2.10 to Oracle Linux Manager 2.10

If you are already using Spacewalk 2.10, you should convert to Oracle Linux Manager 2.10 as
the Spacewalk 2.10 repositories are scheduled to be retired. For details, see [Oracle Linux Manager: Release Notes for
Release 2.10](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/relnotes/) .

To switch a Spacewalk 2.10 server to Oracle Linux Manager:

1. Backup all current configurations.

   - Back up all of the Spacewalk 2.10 configuration files
     in the following directories:

     - `/etc/jabberd`
     - `/etc/rhn`
     - `/etc/sysconfig/rhn`
     - `/root/ssl-build`

     ```
     sudo tar -cvf preSWupgrade.tar /etc/jabberd /etc/rhn /etc/sysconfig/rhn /root/ssl-build
     ```
   - Back up the Spacewalk 2.10 database.

     This step is recommended as a precaution in case the
     switch does not complete successfully.

     To use the Recovery Manager (RMAN) to create a backup, refer to your database
     version's Backup and Recovery User's Guide in <https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/index.html>.
2. Change the way the server that is currently running
   Spacewalk 2.10 Server obtains packages depending on the
   server's current configuration.

   - If the Spacewalk 2.10 server obtains packages from the
     Oracle Linux yum server, install the
     `oracle-linux-manager-server-release-el7`
     package.

     ```
     sudo yum install oracle-linux-manager-server-release-el7
     ```
   - If the Spacewalk 2.10 server is registered as a client
     of itself, update the existing Spacewalk server and
     client repository URLs to Oracle Linux Manager as follows:

     Oracle Linux Manager Server

     - Server Repository
       Label:
       `ol7_oraclelinuxmanager210_server`
     - Server Repository
       Name: Oracle Linux Manager (formerly
       Spacewalk) Server 2.10 for Oracle Linux 7
     - Yum URL:
       `https://yum.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/oraclelinuxmanager210/server/x86_64`

     Oracle Linux Manager Client (Oracle Linux 7)

     - Client Repository
       Label:
       `ol7_oraclelinuxmanager210_client`
     - Client Repository
       Name: Oracle Linux Manager (formerly
       Spacewalk) Client 2.10 for Oracle Linux 7
     - Yum URL:
       `https://yum.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/oraclelinuxmanager210/client/x86_64`

     Oracle Linux Manager Client (Oracle Linux 8)

     - Client Repository
       Label:
       `ol8_oraclelinuxmanager210_client`
     - Client Repository
       Name: Oracle Linux Manager (formerly
       Spacewalk) Client 2.10 for Oracle Linux 8
     - Yum URL:
       `https://yum.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL8/oraclelinuxmanager210/client/x86_64`

     For more information about configuring channels and repositories, see Creating
     Software Channels and Repositories in [Oracle Linux Manager: Client Life Cycle Management Guide for
     Release 2.10](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/admin/) .
3. Upgrade all the packages.

   ```
   sudo yum upgrade
   ```


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/install/install-InstallingandUpgradingOracleLinuxManagerProxies.html -->

WARNING:

The software described in this documentation is supported for a limited period under Extended Support. Oracle Linux 7 is now in Extended Support. See
[Oracle Linux Extended Support](https://www.oracle.com/a/ocom/docs/linux/oracle-linux-extended-support-ds.pdf) and
[Oracle Open Source Support Policies](https://www.oracle.com/us/support/library/enterprise-linux-support-policies-069172.pdf)
for more information.

Consider using OS Management Hub to manage operating system infrastructure. See
[OS Management Hub](https://www.oracle.com/cloud/compute/os-management/)
for more information.

This chapter describes how to install or upgrade an Oracle Linux Manager
proxy.

An Oracle Linux Manager proxy acts as an intermediary between Oracle Linux Manager
clients and an Oracle Linux Manager server. The main purposes of an
Oracle Linux Manager proxy are to mitigate the load on Oracle Linux Manager server and
reduce the download times for Oracle Linux Manager clients.

### Oracle Linux Manager Proxy Requirements

Oracle supports Oracle Linux Manager proxies that are running on Oracle Linux 7 on
the x86\_64 platform. Note the following requirements to install
an Oracle Linux Manager proxy.

#### Oracle Linux Requirements

The following are additional requirements:

- Install Oracle Linux 7 by using either the
  Minimal or
  Basic Server profile.
- Before installing Oracle Linux Manager, remove the
  `jta` package, which prevents Oracle Linux Manager
  services from starting.
- Use only those packages that are provided by Oracle from the Oracle Linux yum server at
  <https://yum.oracle.com>. No third-party package repositories are required.
- Update your system with the latest packages from the
  Oracle Linux yum server.
- Do not register an Oracle Linux Manager
  server or client with ULN. Instead, register an
  Oracle Linux Manager server as a client of itself to receive updates.

#### Storage Requirements

The following are the storage requirements for an Oracle Linux Manager
proxy:

- An Oracle Linux Manager proxy should have a minimum of 4 GB of
  memory.
- Typically, the proxy cache requires 10 GB of storage for
  each combination of Oracle Linux release and architecture.
- By default, an Oracle Linux Manager proxy caches packages under the
  `/var/spool/squid` directory hierarchy
  and is limited to using up to 60% of the free space in the
  file system that contains this directory hierarchy.

#### Networking Requirements

The following are the networking requirements for an Oracle Linux Manager
proxy:

- Static IP address for the proxy
- Correctly configured forward and reverse DNS host name,
  with the following specifications:

  Caution:

  Noncompliance with these specifications for the server's
  host name can cause Oracle Linux Manager to fail in its proxy
  communications, inter-server synchronization (ISS),
  certificate validation, and other areas of operation.

  - The host name of the server must
    not contain
    uppercase letters.
  - While the `/etc/hostname` file
    contains the short name of the host, the
    `/etc/hosts` file
    must
    specify the host's FQDN, as shown in bold in the
    following example:

    ```
    cat /etc/hostname
    ```

    ```
    olmproxy
    ```

    ```
    cat /etc/hosts
    ```

    ```
    127.0.0.1      localhost localhost.localdomain localhost4 localhost4.localdomain4
    ::1            localhost localhost.localdomain localhost6 localhost6.localdomain6
    10.0.0.24      olmproxy.us.mydom.com swkproxy
    ```

    Note that Oracle Linux Manager does not consider
    `.local` and
    `.localdomain` to be valid domain
    names.
- Port numbers

  The following table describes the network ports that an
  Oracle Linux Manager proxy uses, depending on its configuration.

  | Port/Protocol | Direction | Purpose |
  | --- | --- | --- |
  | `80`/`tcp` | Inbound and outbound | HTTP access |
  | `443`/`tcp` | Inbound and outbound | HTTPS access |
  | `5222`/`tcp` | Inbound | Push support to Oracle Linux Manager clients (if required) |
  | `5269`/`tcp` | Inbound | Push support to Oracle Linux Manager proxies (if required) |
- Configured network time synchronization

  Configure Oracle Linux Manager server, proxies, and clients to use
  NTP or PTP. In order to establish a Secure Socket Layer
  (SSL) based connection, Oracle Linux Manager requires that the system
  times on server and client systems be consistent to within
  120 seconds.

If required for Oracle Linux Manager proxy, you can configure a web proxy
during installation. See [Configuring a Web Proxy for an Oracle Linux Manager Server](install-InstallingandUpgradingOracleLinuxManagerServers.html#config-proxy).

### Installing an Oracle Linux Manager Proxy

An Oracle Linux Manager should be configured with the full Oracle Linux Manager client
and be registered with Oracle Linux Manager server.

1. Ensure that the `jta` package is not
   installed.

   1. Remove the `jta` package if it is
      installed on the system.

      ```
      sudo yum list installed | grep jta  
      sudo yum remove jta
      ```
   2. To prevent any future accidental installation of the
      package, do one of the following:

      - Add the `jta` package to the
        `exclude` directive in the
        `/etc/yum.conf` file as follows:

        ```
        exclude=jta*
        ```
      - Disable the Oracle Linux 7 `addons` channel
        (`[ol7_addons]`).

        ```
        sudo yum-config-manager --disable ol7_addons
        ```
2. Configure the system firewall.

   ```
   sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=80/tcp
   sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=443/tcp
   sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=5222/tcp
   sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=5269/tcp
   sudo systemctl reload firewalld
   ```
3. Ensure that the correct channels are configured on the
   system.

   1. If not already present, create these required software
      channels for both Oracle Linux Manager and Oracle Linux 7:
      - Oracle Linux 7 Latest
        (`https://yum.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/latest/`)
      - Oracle Linux 7 Optional Latest
        (`https://yum.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/optional/latest/`
      - Oracle Linux Manager (formerly Spacewalk) Server 2.10 for
        Oracle Linux 7 repository
        (`https://yum.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/oraclemanager210/server/x86_64/`)
      - Oracle Linux Manager (formerly Spacewalk) Client 2.10 for
        Oracle Linux 7 repository
        (`https://yum.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/oraclemanager210/client/x86_64/`)
   2. Ensure that all the packages in these channels are
      properly syncrhonized with the Oracle Linux yum server.
   3. Change the system's channel subscription from the
      Spacewalk 2.7 server channel to Oracle Linux Manager (formerly
      Spacewalk) Server 2.10 for Oracle Linux 7 channel.
   4. Subscribe the proxy to Oracle Linux Manager client and server
      channels.
4. Install Oracle Linux Manager client software and the
   `openssh-clients` packages.

   ```
   sudo yum install rhn-client-tools rhn-check rhn-setup rhnsd m2crypto yum-rhn-plugin openssh-clients
   ```
5. Register the system as a client of Oracle Linux Manager server for
   which it functions as a proxy.

   Note:

   Before you can register a server, you must have already
   created a client activation key. If enabled, a universal
   default key can be used. However, using a specific
   activation key is better.

   1. Download the CA certificate file
      `RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT` to the
      server.

      In a browser tab, navigate to
      `http://olmsvr_FQDN/pub`,
      where olmsvr\_FQDN is the
      fully qualified domain name of Oracle Linux Manager server, and
      download the CA certificate file
      `RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT` to
      `/usr/share/rhn`.

      Alternatively, you can use `wget`
      from the command line, for example:

      ```
      sudo wget -q -O /usr/share/rhn/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT http://olmsvr_FQDN/pub/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT
      ```
   2. Register the system with Oracle Linux Manager by using the
      `rhnreg_ks` command, with the
      `--sslCACert` option to specify the
      path of the CA certificate.

      ```
      sudo rhnreg_ks --sslCACert=/usr/share/rhn/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT --serverUrl=https://olmsvr_FQDN/XMLRPC --activationkey=activation_key
      ```
   3. Verify that the settings in the
      `/etc/sysconfig/rhn/up2date` file
      that are used to access Oracle Linux Manager server are correct.

      1. Verify that `serverURL` is set to
         Oracle Linux Manager server's URL, for example
         `https://olmsvr.mydom.com/XMLRPC`:

         ```
         sudo grep ^serverURL= /etc/sysconfig/rhn/up2date
         ```
      2. Verify that `sslCACert` is set to
         the correct CA certificate file, for example
         `/usr/share/rhn/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT`:

         ```
         sudo grep ^sslCACert= /etc/sysconfig/rhn/up2date
         ```

      Note:

      If the settings are not correct, most likely a
      mistake was made when registering the system with
      the `rhnreg_ks` command. Run the
      `rhnreg_ks` command again to check
      that you correctly specified the path of the CA
      certificate and Oracle Linux Manager server's URL. Also, make
      sure to specify the `--force`
      option to override the previous settings.
6. Install Oracle Linux Manager proxy installer package.

   ```
   sudo yum -y install spacewalk-proxy-installer
   ```
7. Create the `/root/ssl-build` directory.

   ```
   sudo mkdir /root/ssl-build
   ```
8. Copy Oracle Linux Manager server's CA key and public certificate files
   to the proxy server's `/root/ssl-build`.
   The files to be copied are the following:

   - `RHN-ORG-PRIVATE-SSL-KEY`
   - `RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT`
   - `rhn-ca-openssl.cnf`

   See the following example:

   ```
   sudo scp 'root@olm_server:/root/ssl-build/{RHN-ORG-PRIVATE-SSL-KEY,RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT,rhn-ca-openssl.cnf}' /root/ssl-build
   ```

   ```
   RHN-ORG-PRIVATE-SSL-KEY                       100% 1751 1.7KB/s   00:00
   RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT                      100% 5316 5.2KB/s   00:00
   rhn-ca-openssl.cnf                            100% 2186 2.1KB/s   00:00
   ```
9. Configure Oracle Linux Manager proxy by running the
   `/usr/sbin/configure-proxy.sh` script.

   The script initiates an interactive configuration, as the following example shows. User
   input is displayed in bold.

   ```
   sudo /usr/sbin/configure-proxy.sh
   ```

   ```
   Using RHN parent (from /etc/sysconfig/rhn/up2date): olmsvr.mydom.com
   Using CA Chain (from /etc/sysconfig/rhn/up2date): /usr/share/rhn/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT
   HTTP Proxy []: [Enter]
   Proxy version to activate [2.7]: [Enter]
   Traceback email []: my.email@mydom.com
   Use SSL [Y/n]: Y
   Regardless of whether you enabled SSL for the connection to the Oracle Linux Manager Parent
   Server, you will be prompted to generate an SSL certificate.
   This SSL certificate will allow client systems to connect to this Oracle Linux Manager Proxy
   securely. Refer to the Oracle Linux Manager Proxy Installation Guide for more information.
   Organization []: Company Demo
   Organization Unit [olmproxy.us.mydom.com]: [Enter]
   Common Name [olmproxy.us.mydom.com]: [Enter]
   City []: Redwood Shores
   State []: CA
   Country code []: US
   Email [my.email@mydom.com]: [Enter]
   Cname aliases (separated by space) []: [Enter]
   Oracle Linux Manager Proxy successfully activated.
   Loaded plugins: rhnplugin
   This system is receiving updates from RHN Classic or Red Hat Satellite.
   Setting up Install Process
   Resolving Dependencies
   --> Running transaction check
   ---> Package spacewalk-proxy-management.noarch... will be installed
   ...
   Transaction Summary
   ================================================================================
   Install      42 Package(s)

   Total download size: 13 M
   Installed size: 32 M
   Is this ok [y/N]: y
   Downloading Packages:
   (1/42): apr...                     | 122 kB     00:00
   ...
   Using CA key at /root/ssl-build/RHN-ORG-PRIVATE-SSL-KEY.
   Generating distributable RPM for CA public certificate:
   Copying CA public certificate to /var/www/html/pub for distribution to clients:
   Generating SSL key and public certificate:
   CA password: cert_passwd
   Installing SSL certificate for Apache and Jabberd:
   Preparing packages for installation...
   rhn-org-httpd-ssl-key-pair-olmproxy-1.0-1
   Create and populate configuration channel rhn_proxy_config_1000010000? [Y/n]: Y
   Oracle Linux Manager username: []: olm_user
   Password: olm_passwd
   Using server name olmsvr.mydom.com
   Creating config channel rhn_proxy_config_1000010000
   Config channel rhn_proxy_config_1000010000 created
   Using server name olmsvr.mydom.com
   Pushing to channel rhn_proxy_config_1000010000:
   Local file /etc/httpd/conf.d/ssl.conf -> remote file /etc/httpd/conf.d/ssl.conf
   Local file /etc/rhn/rhn.conf -> remote file /etc/rhn/rhn.conf
   Local file /etc/squid/squid.conf -> remote file /etc/squid/squid.conf
   Local file /etc/httpd/conf.d/cobbler-proxy.conf -> remote file /etc/httpd/conf.d/cobbler-proxy.conf
   Local file /etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf -> remote file /etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf
   Local file /etc/jabberd/c2s.xml -> remote file /etc/jabberd/c2s.xml
   Local file /etc/jabberd/sm.xml -> remote file /etc/jabberd/sm.xml
   Enabling Oracle Linux Manager Proxy.
   Shutting down rhn-proxy...
   Terminating jabberd processes ...
   Stopping s2s:                                              [FAILED]
   Stopping c2s:                                              [FAILED]
   Stopping sm:                                               [FAILED]
   Stopping router:                                           [FAILED]
   Stopping httpd:                                            [FAILED]
   Stopping squid:                                            [FAILED]
   Done.
   Starting rhn-proxy...
   init_cache_dir /var/spool/squid... Starting squid: .       [  OK  ]
   Starting httpd:                                            [  OK  ]
   Initializing jabberd processes ...
   Starting router:                                           [  OK  ]
   Starting sm:                                               [  OK  ]
   Starting c2s:                                              [  OK  ]
   Starting s2s:                                              [  OK  ]
   Done.
   There were some answers you had to enter manually.
   Would you like to have written those into file
   formatted as answers file? [Y/n]: y
   Writing proxy-answers.txt.NtM1Y
   ```

   Note:

   The information that you provide is recorded in a file
   named
   `proxy-answers.txt.UID`,
   such as `proxy-answers.txt.NtM1Y` in the
   previous output. You can use this file to automate the
   configuration of an Oracle Linux Manager proxy, as shown in the
   following example:

   ```
   configure-proxy.sh --non-interactive --answer-file=proxy-answers.txt.NtM1Y
   ```
10. If you want to use third-party CA-signed SSL certificate
    instead of the self-signed SSL certificate, follow the
    procedure described in [Replacing a Self-Signed SSL Certificate](install-InstallingandUpgradingOracleLinuxManagerServers.html#replace-cert).

    Note:

    Oracle recommends that you replace the self-signed SSL
    certificate before registering any clients. Otherwise, you
    must log on separately to each existing client and
    configure it to use the new SSL certificate. You cannot
    perform this step from Oracle Linux Manager server.
11. To check that Oracle Linux Manager proxy is running correctly, specify
    the URL of the proxy when registering an Oracle Linux Manager client,
    as shown in the following example

    ```
    sudo rhnreg_ks --sslCACert=/usr/share/rhn/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT --serverUrl=https://olmproxy_FQDN/XMLRPC --activationkey=activation_key
    ```

    After registering the client, subscribe it to software
    channels on the server and verify that you can update
    packages from the client.

### Upgrading a Spacewalk 2.7 Proxy Server

Upgrade a Spacewalk proxy system as follows:

1. If not already present on the Spacewalk 2.7 server, create
   software channels for both Oracle Linux Manager client and server ,
   then subscribe the proxy system to these channels.

   1. Create an Oracle Linux Manager client channel as a child of the
      Oracle Linux 7 base channel.
   2. Create an Oracle Linux Manager client repository that accesses the
      corresponding client channel on the Oracle Linux yum server
      (`https://yum.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/oraclelinuxmanager210/client/x86_64/`),
      using the same GPG settings as the Oracle Linux release.
   3. Associate Oracle Linux Manager client repository with the
      corresponding client channel and synchronize the
      repository's packages from the Oracle Linux yum server.
   4. Create an Oracle Linux Manager server channel as a child of the
      Oracle Linux 7 base channel.
   5. Create an Oracle Linux Manager server repository that accesses the
      corresponding server channel on the Oracle Linux yum server
      (`https://yum.oracle.com/repo/OracleLinux/OL7/oraclelinuxmanager210/server/x86_64/`),
      using the same GPG settings as the Oracle Linux release.
   6. Associate Oracle Linux Manager (formerly Spacewalk) Server 2.10 for
      Oracle Linux 7 repository with the corresponding server channel
      and synchronize the repository's packages from the
      Oracle Linux yum server.
   7. Change the system's channel subscription from the
      Spacewalk 2.7 server channel to Oracle Linux Manager (formerly
      Spacewalk) Server 2.10 for Oracle Linux 7 channel.
   8. Subscribe the upgraded proxy system to Oracle Linux Manager client
      and server channels
      instead of the Spacewalk server and client channels for
      Release 2.7.
2. Back up the CA key, SSL certificate and the openSSL
   configuration file in `/root/ssl-build`.

   For example, you could use the `tar`
   command as follows to create a backup:

   ```
   sudo cd /root/ssl-build
   sudo tar -cvf /tmp/sslcerts.tar RHN-ORG-PRIVATE-SSL-KEY RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT rhn-ca-openssl.cnf
   ```
3. Run the `yum update` command to update all
   of the packages on the system.

   ```
   sudo yum update
   ```
4. If necessary, extract the CA key, SSL certificate, and
   openSSL configuration file from your backup file to
   `/root/ssl-build`:

   ```
   sudo cd /root/ssl-build
   sudo tar -xvf /tmp/sslcerts.tar
   ```
5. Configure Oracle Linux Manager proxy by running the
   `configure-proxy.sh` script.

   The following example uses the
   `proxy-answers.txt.UID`
   file that was saved from a previous installation to perform
   the configuration:

   ```
   sudo configure-proxy.sh --non-interactive --answer-file=proxy-answers.txt.NtM1Y
   ```

   You can also run this command interactively by omitting any
   command-line options.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/install/install-ConfiguringInterServerSynchronizationforOracleLinuxManagerServers.html -->

WARNING:

The software described in this documentation is supported for a limited period under Extended Support. Oracle Linux 7 is now in Extended Support. See
[Oracle Linux Extended Support](https://www.oracle.com/a/ocom/docs/linux/oracle-linux-extended-support-ds.pdf) and
[Oracle Open Source Support Policies](https://www.oracle.com/us/support/library/enterprise-linux-support-policies-069172.pdf)
for more information.

Consider using OS Management Hub to manage operating system infrastructure. See
[OS Management Hub](https://www.oracle.com/cloud/compute/os-management/)
for more information.

This chapter describes the configuration and synchronization of
primary and worker or secondary Oracle Linux Manager systems.

### About Primary-Secondary Configurations

You can configure inter-server configuration (ISS) to
synchronize channel content, channel permissions, and
organizational trust settings between Oracle Linux Manager servers. The
configuration of local non-content settings for users and
organizations is not affected. One Oracle Linux Manager server acts as a
primary server to provide content to any
number of worker or
secondary servers.

Typical use cases of this configuration include the following
examples:

- Content on the worker servers is regularly synchronized with
  the primary server to obtain the latest maintenance
  releases.
- Content is developed and tested on the primary server before
  distribution to the worker servers.
- Worker servers have local content that is additional to that
  synchronized from the primary server.

You can configure primary servers that are themselves workers of
a higher-level primary Oracle Linux Manager server. The usual ISS topology
is a tree-like hierarchy, where there is one top-level primary
server and each worker has only one primary server. A less
typical topology is a directed graph, where several top-level
primary servers might exist, and each worker can have more than
one primary servver . If a worker has more than one primary
server , you can designate one as the default primary server
with which the worker synchronizes.

To set up the relationships between primary and worker Oracle Linux Manager
servers, you can use the `spacewalk-sync-setup`
command, provided that you installed the
`spacewalk-utils` package. Otherwise, you would
need to use Oracle Linux Manager web interface which enables you to
configure each server independently.

### Setting a Worker-Only Oracle Linux Manager Server

By default, an Oracle Linux Manager server is configured so that it can act
as a primary server. Any worker server that you configure for
the primary server can synchronize from that primary server.

You can designate an Oracle Linux Manager server to function only as a
worker server by following these steps:

1. Edit `/etc/rhn/rhn.conf` and set the value
   of `disable_iss` as follows:

   ```
   disable_iss=1
   ```
2. Restart the `httpd` service.

   ```
   sudo systemctl restart httpd
   ```

To make the server revert to the default behavior, reset
`disable_iss` to 0.

### Creating Primary-Worker Configurations With the spacewalk-sync-setup Command

This section assumes that you have installed the
`spacewalk-utils` package. If not, follow the
method in [Setting Up Primary-Worker Configurations With Oracle Linux Manager Web Interface](install-ConfiguringInterServerSynchronizationforOracleLinuxManagerServers.html#ms-config-webui) instead.

Ensure first that Oracle Linux Manager is running on both the primary and
worker servers. Then, on either primary or worker server, run
the `spacewalk-sync-setup` command: as follows

```
sudo spacewalk-sync-setup --apply --create-templates --ms=primary_olmsvr_FQDN \
--ml=primary_olmadm --mp=primary_olmadm_passwd --ss=backup_olmsvr_FQDN \
--sl=backup_olmadm --sp=backup_olmadm_passwd
```

```
INFO: Connecting to olmadmin@olmsvr.mydom.com
INFO: Connecting to olmadmin@olmsvr2.mydom.com
INFO: Generating master-setup file /root/.spacewalk-sync-setup/master.txt
INFO: Generating slave-setup file /root/.spacewalk-sync-setup/slave.txt
INFO: About to wget master CA cert: [wget -q -O 
/usr/share/rhn/olmsvr.mydom.com_RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT 
http://olmsvr.mydom.com/pub/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT]
INFO: Applying master-setup /root/.spacewalk-sync-setup/master.txt
INFO: Applying slave-setup /root/.spacewalk-sync-setup/slave.txt
```

A copy of the primary server's CA certificate is stored on the
worker as
`/usr/share/rhn/olmsvr.mydom.com_RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT`.

You can then map local organizations on the worker server to
organizations that the primary server exports. See
[Configuring a Primary Oracle Linux Manager Server](install-ConfiguringInterServerSynchronizationforOracleLinuxManagerServers.html#config-master).

### Setting Up Primary-Worker Configurations With Oracle Linux Manager Web Interface

This section describes how to use Oracle Linux Manager Web Interface to
configure primary and worker systems and how to create
organizations to be included in their synchronization.

#### Creating Local Organizations

If you intend to include organizations when configuring
primary-worker server synchronization, you must create those
organizations first. You can create as many organizations as
you need.

1. Log in to your Oracle Linux Manager server's URL, such as
   `https://olmsvr.mydom.com`.
2. Select Admin.
3. On the Organizations
   page, click +
   Create Organization.
4. On the Create Organization page, enter the required values
   to create the organization and its administrator.

   Note:

   Each organization you create must have its own
   administrator acocunt that is different from the
   Oracle Linux Manager administrator.
5. Accept any of the default values that are provided for
   you.
6. Click Create
   Organization.

#### Configuring a Primary Oracle Linux Manager Server

Configure a primary Oracle Linux Manager server as follows:

1. On Admin, select
   ISS Configuration.

   The Master Setup tab is
   selected by default.
2. Click + Add new slave.
3. On the Edit Slave Details page, type the FQDN of the
   worker server and select or deselect the check boxes that
   configure primary-worker server synchronization.

   For example, you might want to enable the worker to
   synchronize from the primary server, but not want to
   synchronize all organizations to the worker .
4. Click Create.

   When the page refreshes, you are able to select which
   organizations can be exported.
5. Provided that you have already created the organizations,
   select those organizations that you want to enable to be
   exported to the worker, then click
   Allow Orgs.

   To create organizations, see [Creating Local Organizations](install-ConfiguringInterServerSynchronizationforOracleLinuxManagerServers.html#create-org).

#### Configuring a Worker Oracle Linux Manager Server

Configure a worker Oracle Linux Manager server as follows:

1. On a separate browser tab, navigate to
   `http://primary_olmsvr_FQDN/pub`
   and download the CA certificate file
   `RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT` as
   `RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT-MASTER`.

   Alternatively, you can use the `wget`
   command on a terminal window as follows:

   ```
   sudo wget -q -O /usr/share/rhn/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT-MASTER \
   http://primary_olmsvr_FQDN/pub/RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT
   ```
2. Switch back to the browser tab that is displaying the ISS
   Configuration page.
3. Select the Slave Setup
   tab and click +
   Add new master.
4. On the Details for new Master page, do the following:

   - Type the FQDN of the primary server.
   - Type the absolute path of the downloaded primary's CA
     certificate
     (`RHN-ORG-TRUSTED-SSL-CERT-MASTER`).
5. Select if you want the primary server to be the default
   server with which the worker synchronizes.
6. Click Add new master.

   The page refreshes to display a Configure Master-to-Slave
   Org Mappings section.
7. Choose one of the following steps:

   - If you do not intend to import any organization,
     select NOT
     MAPPED.
   - If you intend to import an organizations, select it
     from the pull-down menu in the Matching Local Org
     column.

     This step assumes you have already created the
     organizations. See
     [Creating Local Organizations](install-ConfiguringInterServerSynchronizationforOracleLinuxManagerServers.html#create-org).
8. Click Update.

### Synchronizing Software Channels on an Oracle Linux Manager Worker Server

You synchronize a software channel by running the
`satellite-sync` command on the worker server
as follows:

```
sudo satellite-sync [--iss-parent=primary_olmsvr_FQDN] [--orgid=N] -c channel_label
```

In the previous command,
channel\_label specifies the label of
the software channel to synchronize from the primary server.

The argument to the `--orgid` option specifies
the ID of the organization on the worker into which the channel
is synchronized. If not specified, Oracle Linux Manager Default
Organization with ID 1 is assumed.

The primary\_olmsvr\_FQDN value
specifies the FQDN of the primary Oracle Linux Manager server. If not
specified, and the worker server has more than one primary
server, the default primary server is assumed.

The following example shows how to use the command to begin the
synchronization process.

```
sudo satellite-sync -c oraclelinux6-x86_64-patch
```

```
16:16:52 Oracle Linux Manager - live synchronization
16:16:52    url: https://olmsvr.mydom.com
16:16:52    debug/output level: 1
16:16:52    db:  c##olm2/<password>@//odbsvr.mydom.com/company.mydom.com
16:16:52 
16:16:52 Retrieving / parsing orgs data
16:16:52 orgs data complete
16:16:52 
16:16:52 Retrieving / parsing channel-families data
16:16:52 channel-families data complete
16:16:52 
16:16:52 Retrieving / parsing product names data
16:16:52 product names data complete
16:16:52 
16:16:52 Retrieving / parsing arches data
16:16:53 arches data complete
16:16:53 
16:16:53 Retrieving / parsing additional arches data
16:16:53 additional arches data complete
16:16:53 
16:16:53 Retrieving / parsing channel data
16:16:54    p = previously imported/synced channel
16:16:54    . = channel not yet imported/synced
16:16:54    base-channels:
16:16:54         NONE RELEVANT                                 
16:16:54    oraclelinux6-x86_64:
16:16:54       . oraclelinux6-x86_64-patch    1367    full import from Fri Jul 10 13:02:52 2015
16:16:54 
16:16:54 Channel data complete
16:16:54 
16:16:54 Retrieving short package metadata (used for indexing)
16:16:54    Retrieving / parsing short package metadata: oraclelinux6-x86_64-patch (1367)
16:17:01 Diffing package metadata (what's missing locally?): oraclelinux6-x86_64-patch
            ________________________________________
Diffing:    ######################################## - complete
16:17:04 
16:17:04 Downloading package metadata
16:17:04    Retrieving / parsing *relevant* package metadata: oraclelinux6-x86_64-patch (1357)
16:17:04    * WARNING: this may be a slow process.
            ________________________________________
Downloading:######################################## - complete
16:42:30 
16:42:30 Downloading rpm packages
16:42:30    Fetching any missing RPMs: oraclelinux6-x86_64-patch (1357)
16:42:53    Total size: 5.31 GiB
16:47:53 Processing rpm packages complete
16:47:53 
16:47:53 Importing package metadata
16:47:53    Importing *relevant* package metadata: oraclelinux6-x86_64-patch (1357)
            ________________________________________
Importing:  ######################################## - complete
18:06:44 
18:06:44 Linking packages to channels
18:07:02 
18:07:02 Downloading errata data
18:07:02    Retrieving / parsing errata data: oraclelinux6-x86_64-patch (216)
            ________________________________________
Downloading:######################################## - complete
18:07:06 Downloading errata data complete
18:07:06 
18:07:06 Downloading kickstartable trees metadata
18:07:06    Retrieving / parsing kickstart data: oraclelinux6-x86_64-patch (NONE RELEVANT)
18:07:06 
18:07:06 Downloading kickstartable trees files
18:07:06    Retrieving / parsing kickstart tree files: oraclelinux6-x86_64-patch (NONE RELEVANT)
18:07:06 
18:07:06 Importing channel errata
18:07:13    Importing *relevant* errata: oraclelinux6-x86_64-patch (468)
            ________________________________________
Downloading:######################################## - complete
18:07:31    No new kickstartable tree to import
    Import complete:
        Begin time: Fri Jul 10 16:16:51 2015
        End time:   Fri Jul 10 18:07:31 2015
        Elapsed:    1 hours, 50 minutes, 40 seconds
```


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/install/install-TroubleshootingOracleLinuxManagerProblems.html -->

WARNING:

The software described in this documentation is supported for a limited period under Extended Support. Oracle Linux 7 is now in Extended Support. See
[Oracle Linux Extended Support](https://www.oracle.com/a/ocom/docs/linux/oracle-linux-extended-support-ds.pdf) and
[Oracle Open Source Support Policies](https://www.oracle.com/us/support/library/enterprise-linux-support-policies-069172.pdf)
for more information.

Consider using OS Management Hub to manage operating system infrastructure. See
[OS Management Hub](https://www.oracle.com/cloud/compute/os-management/)
for more information.

This chapter describes how to diagnose and fix problems that you might encounter on an
Oracle Linux Manager server. For information about other known issues and possible
workarounds, see [Oracle Linux Manager: Release Notes for
Release 2.10](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux-manager/2.10/relnotes/) .

### Checking the Status of Services

Use the `/usr/sbin/spacewalk-service status`
command to identify Oracle Linux Manager services that might be running
incorrectly. For Oracle Linux Manager proxy servers, use the
`rhn-proxy status` command.

Services that do not start correctly are typically caused by
incorrect configuration information that was provided during
installation.

For Oracle Linux Manager proxies, verify also that the
`/etc/sysconfig/rhn/systemid` file is owned by
`root:apache` and that its mode is set to 640.

If required to clear up package provisioning problems on
Oracle Linux Manager proxies, clear the proxy cache as follows:

1. Stop the `httpd` and
   `squid` services.

   ```
   sudo systemctl stop httpd
   sudo systemctl stop squid
   ```
2. Delete the contents of the cache as follows:

   ```
   sudo rm -Rf /var/cache/rhn/*
   ```
3. Restart the `squid` and
   `httpd` services.

   ```
   sudo systemctl start squid
   sudo systemctl start httpd
   ```

### Checking Logs for Errors

The following Oracle Linux Manager server logs are information sources when
errors occur:

`/var/log/httpd/*`
:   `httpd` service log files.

`/var/log/rhn_satellite_install.log`
:   Installation log file.

`/var/log/rhn/reposync/*`
:   Repository synchronization log files.

`/var/log/rhn/rhn_server_satellite.log`
:   Synchronization log file.

`/var/log/rhn/rhn_server_xmlrpc.log`
:   XML-RPC transaction log file.

`/var/log/rhn/rhn_taskomatic_daemon.log`
:   Red Hat Network (RHN) Task Engine (Taskomatic) log
    messages.

`/var/log/tomcat`
:   Tomcat log messages for Oracle Linux.

`/var/log/yum.log`
:   Yum log file.

On Oracle Linux Manager proxies, these addiitonal logs are also useful for
error checking:

`/var/log/rhn/rhn_proxy_broker.log`
:   Proxy brokering service log file.

`/var/log/rhn/rhn_proxy_redirect.log`
:   Proxy SSL redirection service log file.

`/var/log/squid/*`
:   Squid proxy log files.

Note:

Oracle Linux Manager generates large numbers of log messages,
particularly under the `/var/log/httpd`
directory. To avoid running out of disk space, adjust the
`logrotate` settings to implement more active
rotation, compression, and archival of log files.

For more information, see the [Oracle Linux 7: Monitoring and Tuning the System](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/7/monitoring/).

### Issues and Problems

This section describes issues you might encounter with the
current Oracle Linux Manager release. It also includes workarounds should
these errors occur.

#### osa-dispatcher Reports a Certificate Verification Failure

When you start the `osa-dispatcher` service,
you might encounter an error message similar to the following:

```
sudo systemctl start osa-dispatcher
```

```
Starting osa-dispatcher: Oracle Linux Manager 10611 2015/05/26 17:11:22 +01:00: ('Traceback caught:',)
Oracle Linux Manager 10611 2015/05/26 17:11:22 +01:00: ('Traceback (most recent call last):\n  
    File "/usr/share/rhn/osad/jabber_lib.py", line 631, in connect\n    
    ssl.do_handshake()\nError: [(\'SSL routines\', \'SSL3_GET_SERVER_CERTIFICATE\', 
    \'certificate verify failed\')]\n',)
                                                          [FAILED]
```

This error usually indicates that the system's host name does
not match its FQDN in DNS, or that you specified an incorrect
FQDN for the name of the Organization Unit when you installed
Oracle Linux Manager.

Resolving the issue involves regenerating the SSL certificate.
However, if the system's host name has been changed over time,
then regenerating the certificate requires you to provide the
certificate password. To prepare, verify first that you know
the correct password. Type the following command:

```
sudo openssl rsa -in /root/ssl-build/RHN-ORG-PRIVATE-SSL-KEY
```

You are prompted for the pass phrase before the key is
displayed.

If you typed the correct password, the base64-encoded private
key is displayed. Otherwise, the command generates the error
message `unable to load Private Key`.

After verification, proceed to the following steps:

1. Issue the following command to regenerate the certificate:

   ```
   sudo /usr/sbin/spacewalk-hostname-rename IP_address --ssl-orgunit=FQDN
   ```
2. If prompted for the password, type the same password that
   you used when you created the existing certificate
   previously.
3. Type the following commands to clear the
   `jabberd` database.

   ```
   sudo systemctl stop jabberd
   sudo systemctl stop osa-dispatcher
   sudo rm -Rf /var/lib/jabberd/db/*
   sudo systemctl start jabberd
   sudo systemctl start osa-dispatcher
   ```
4. On every client that is registered with the server, verify
   that the value of `serverURL` in the
   `/etc/sysconfig/rhn/up2date` file is
   configured with the correct server host name or IP value,
   for example:

   ```
   serverURL=https://olmsvr.mydom.com/XMLRPC
   ```

#### osa-dispatcher Reports an Invalid Password

If the `osa-dispatcher` service starts
correctly, but later stops unexpectedly, you might see a log
error similar to the following displayed:

```
Oracle Linux Manager 2316 2015/06/05 20:38:47 +01:00: ('Invalid password',)
```

This error can occur if the `jabberd`
database contains invalid entries.

To clear the error, stop the `jabberd` and
`osa-dispatcher` services, clear the
`jabberd` database, then restart the
`jabberd` and
`osa-dispatcher` services.

```
sudo systemctl stop jabberd
sudo systemctl stop osa-dispatcher
sudo rm -Rf /var/lib/jabberd/db/*
sudo systemctl start jabberd
sudo systemctl start osa-dispatcher
```

Note:

To avoid problems with OSA, you should clear the
`jabberd` database at regular intervals.

To avoid database corruption, follow the instructions in
[Preparing to Upgrade](install-InstallingandUpgradingOracleLinuxManagerServers.html#upgrade-prep).