---
title: "Creating Custom Images With Image Builder"
source_url: "https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr"
fetched: 2026-03-26
tags:
  - "oracle-linux"
  - "ol9"
  - "image-builder"
type: "oracle-doc"
sensitivity: public
---

Creating Custom Images With Image Builder

F96411-05

November 2024

---

[Title and Copyright Information](#copyright-information)

Oracle Linux 9 Creating Custom Images With Image Builder

F96411-05

[Copyright ©](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/legal&id=cpyr)2024, Oracle and/or its affiliates.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/ibldr-Preface.html -->

[Oracle Linux 9: Creating Custom Images With Image Builder](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/)
provides information about creating customized images of Oracle Linux that you can deploy on
different platforms such as the cloud or bare metal systems.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/ref-copyright-ccbysa4.html -->

The content in this document is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) (CC-BY-SA) license. In accordance with
CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this content or an adaptation of it, you must provide attribution
to Oracle and retain the original copyright notices.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/ref-conventions.html -->

The following text conventions are used in this document:

| Convention | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| boldface | Boldface type indicates graphical user interface elements associated with an action, or terms defined in text or the glossary. |
| italic | Italic type indicates book titles, emphasis, or placeholder variables for which you supply particular values. |
| `monospace` | Monospace type indicates commands within a paragraph, URLs, code in examples, text that appears on the screen, or text that you enter. |


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/ref-doc-accessibility.html -->

For information about Oracle's commitment to accessibility, visit the Oracle Accessibility
Program website at <https://www.oracle.com/corporate/accessibility/>.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/ref-accessibility.html -->

Oracle customers that have purchased support have access to electronic support through My
Oracle Support. For information, visit <https://www.oracle.com/corporate/accessibility/learning-support.html#support-tab>.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/ref-diversity.html -->

Oracle is fully committed to diversity and inclusion. Oracle respects and values having a
diverse workforce that increases thought leadership and innovation. As part of our
initiative to build a more inclusive culture that positively impacts our employees,
customers, and partners, we are working to remove insensitive terms from our products and
documentation. We are also mindful of the necessity to maintain compatibility with our
customers' existing technologies and the need to ensure continuity of service as Oracle's
offerings and industry standards evolve. Because of these technical constraints, our effort
to remove insensitive terms is ongoing and will take time and external cooperation.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/AboutImageBuilder.html -->

Image Builder is a tool for creating custom images of Oracle Linux for
deployment on different platforms, such as in the cloud or on bare metal systems. Images can
be created based on the host Oracle Linux version, or on different versions of Oracle Linux
provided in the Image Builder repository. Image Builder can generate these images in several
different formats, such as `tar` or `iso`.

Image Builder isn't automatically included in an Oracle Linux
installation and requires a separate package download. After installing Image Builder and
completing the required system configurations, you can use either the command line or the
Cockpit web console to create custom Oracle Linux images.

Note:

For more information about installing Image Builder, see [Installing Image Builder](InstallIBuilder.html#task_tlt_qzq_3wb "Describes how to install Image Builder.").

To use Image Builder, you need to understand the following concepts:

- [Blueprints](Blueprints.html#concept_jv1_pyv_hwb "Image Builder uses blueprints to create custom images.")
- [Customizations](Customizations.html#concept_d3c_z1w_hwb "Customizations are blueprint entries that aren't package related.")
- [Composer Images](ComposedImage.html#concept_cf5_4qw_hwb "Composer images are images that are generated by the composer-cli compose command.")


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/Blueprints.html -->

Image Builder uses blueprints to create custom images.

A blueprint provides the specification for a custom image that Image Builder uses to create
the image. A typical blueprint specification contains general metadata, a list of packages to
install, and other customizations to apply.

Blueprints are defined in Tom's Obvious Minimal Language (TOML) format and can be created or
edited in any text editor.

Blueprint definitions follow the convention `parameter =
"value"`, with package and customization definitions being
grouped under `[[packages]]` or `[[customizations]]`, as
appropriate.

For more information about the contents of a blueprint, see [Blueprint Format](BlueprintFormat.html "Blueprint content consists of basic metadata information, package information, and customizations.").

When you have created a blueprint file, you must register the blueprint with Image Builder
before you can use that blueprint to create an image. See [Creating a Blueprint](HowToPrepareBlueprint.html#task_dd1_x3q_rwb "Learn how to create a blueprint.").

When you create images based on a blueprint, those images become associated with that
blueprint in the Image Builder interface of the Cockpit web console.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/Customizations.html -->

Customizations are blueprint entries that aren't package related.

Customizations are other image specifications that aren't part of package specifications.
These include predefined users and groups, SSH keys that implement system security, and other
requirements.

Customizations in blueprints are denoted depending on their scope. A customization that has a
general application, such as specifying a host name for the image, is defined in a
`[customizations]` block entry. More specific customizations append tags to
the heading to better identify the customization. For example, user definitions are in a
`[[customizations.user]]` block, while `serviced`
customizations are under the `[[customizations.services]]` heading, and so
on.

Similar to package listings, customization parameters also follow the
`parameter = value` format.

For more information about specifying customizations in a blueprint, see [Blueprint Format](BlueprintFormat.html "Blueprint content consists of basic metadata information, package information, and customizations.").


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/ComposedImage.html -->

Composer images are images that are generated by the `composer-cli
compose` command.

The actual creation of a custom image occurs when you run the `composer-cli
compose` command against a blueprint. Therefore, the image is called a composer
image. A composer image is the final result of the image building process.

Aside from the definitions that are specified in the blueprint, a composer image also
includes logs, metadata, and the processes that run to create the image.

Composer images can be produced in different output formats. For example:
`oci`, `qcow`, and `tar`. For each type, the
system automatically installs default packages. Also, the type has associated services that
are enabled automatically when the image is deployed. For example, for a `tar`
image, the system automatically includes the `policycoreutils` and
`selinux-policy-targetd` packages. However, no extra services are enabled.

Customizations in the blueprint can specify other services that need to be enabled. However,
these customizations can't override the required services for an image type that are
automatically enabled when the image is deployed.

For more information about the different image types, see: [Image Types and Output Formats](ImgTypeRef.html "Image Builder can generate different types of image that can be deployed on specific platforms.").


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/PrepForIBUse.html -->

Before using Image Builder, complete the following:

- Fulfill the system requirements.
- Install the Image Builder component packages.
- Configure specific repositories needed by the OS image.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/SystemRequirements.html -->

Image Builder requires a dedicated system with the following minimum configuration:

- 2-core processor
- 4 GiB of memory
- 20 GiB available disk space in the `/var` directory
- Access to the Internet
- Appropriate privileges for performing administrator tasks

Note:

A dedicated virtual machine can also serve as the environment for running Image
Builder.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/InstallIBuilder.html -->

Describes how to install Image Builder.

Image Builder isn't automatically included in an Oracle Linux installation. This task
describes how to install and configure Image Builder.

1. Install the Image Builder packages.

   ```
   sudo dnf install -y osbuild-composer composer-cli cockpit-composer bash-completion
   ```
2. Enable the Image Builder service to automatically start after every system reboot. 

   ```
   sudo systemctl enable --now osbuild-composer.socket
   ```

   ```
   sudo systemctl enable --now cockpit.socket
   ```
3. (Optional) Enable autocompletion for the `composer-cli` command by
   loading the configuration script. 

   ```
   source /etc/bash_completion.d/composer-cli
   ```


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/AboutIBRepos.html -->

Composed images use Image Builder repositories to download their required
packages.

The Image Builder repository contains definitions for building images based on different
major versions of Oracle Linux. You can therefore use Image Builder to build an image
for a version of Oracle Linux that's different to the version running on the Image
Builder host.

Note:

The image that Image Builder creates for a
release of Oracle Linux includes all the latest packages for that release. You can't
build an image for a specific update level.

Image Builder doesn't use the system repositories that are defined in
`/etc/yum.repos.d/` in a typical Oracle Linux installation.
Instead, the repository definitions for Image Builder are automatically installed in
`/usr/share/osbuild-composer/repositories`. In this directory,
repository definitions are contained in files in JSON format, which is different from
the `*.repo` files in `/etc/yum.repos.d/`.

Each file corresponds to the latest update of a major version of Oracle Linux. For
example, the following extract is from the `ol-9.json` repository file for the latest Oracle Linux
9 release on the x86\_64 platform.

```
{
    "x86_64": [
        {
            "name": "baseos",
            "baseurl": "https://yum$ociregion.$ocidomain/repo/OracleLinux/OL9/baseos/latest/x86_64",
            "check_gpg": false,
            "rhsm": false
        },
        {
            ...other repositories...
        }
    ]
}
```

The repository definitions in the JSON file correspond to information in the parallel
`*.repo` file in the `/etc/yum.repos.d` directory.
In the previous example, the JSON file is based on the
`/etc/yum.repos.d/oracle-linux-ol9.repo`
file.

You can override the default repositories in
`/usr/share/osbuild-composer/repositories` by defining custom
repositories in a different location.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/CreateRepos.html -->

Learn how to create a custom repository.

This task describes how to create a separate custom repository file to override the default
repositories that are created when you install Image Builder.

1. Create a directory to store the customized repositories. 

   ```
   sudo mkdir -p /etc/osbuild-composer/repositories
   ```
2. Using a text editor, create a file for the version of Oracle Linux
   image you want to create. 

   Or, you can copy a default repository file to use as a template. For example, for an
   Oracle Linux
   9 image, you would copy the Oracle Linux
   9 JSON file from the default
   location.

   ```
   sudo cp /usr/share/osbuild-composer/repositories/ol-9.json /etc/osbuild-composer/repositories/
   ```
3. Following the repository JSON specification, include the following information for
   each repository in the file that you created:

   - System architecture of the OS.
   - `name`: name of the repository.
   - `baseurl`: the URL of the yum repository.
   - `check_gpg`: must always be set to false.
   - `rhsm`: must always be set to false.

   The following is an example of a JSON file for an Oracle Linux
   9 image:

   ```
   {
       "x86_64": [
           {
               "name": "baseos",
               "baseurl": "https://yum$ociregion.$ocidomain/repo/OracleLinux/OL9/baseos/latest/x86_64",
               "check_gpg": false,
               "rhsm": false
           },
       ]
   }
   ```
4. (Optional) Verify that the URLs in the file are correct by comparing them to the
   corresponding repository file in `/etc/yum.repos.d`. 

   For the current example, you would use an Oracle Linux
   9 repository file for verification.

   ```
   cat /etc/yum.repos.d/oracle-linux-ol9.repo
   ```
5. Restart `osbuild-composer.service`.

   ```
   sudo systemctl restart osbuild-composer.service
   ```


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/DeployCustomIBImages.html -->

Deploying a custom image requires the following steps:

1. Create a blueprint, or edit an existing blueprint.
2. Import the blueprint.
3. Create the image based on the blueprint.
4. Download the resulting image.
5. Install the software according to the image specifications.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/HowToPrepareBlueprint.html -->

Learn how to create a blueprint.

The following procedure describes how to create a blueprint configuration using the CLI.
Or, you can create a blueprint using the Cockpit web console interface, see [Oracle Linux: Using the Cockpit Web Console](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/cockpit/) for more details.

1. Create a blueprint configuration as follows: 
   1. Using any text editor, create a text file.
   2. In the text file, provide the blueprint specifications for the base distro, the
      packages you want installed, and any other image customizations as required. 

      Ensure that you provide the basic metadata information about the blueprint. For
      reference, see [Blueprint Format](BlueprintFormat.html "Blueprint content consists of basic metadata information, package information, and customizations.")
   3. Save the file as a `toml` file. For example,
      `myblueprintfile.toml`.
   4. Push or import the blueprint into Image Builder, for example:

      ```
      sudo composer-cli blueprints push myblueprintfile.toml
      ```
2. (Optional) View the blueprint configuration, using the name you specified in the
   blueprint metadata name entry:

   ```
   sudo composer-cli blueprints show myblueprint
   ```
3. Verify that the blueprint's components and versions and corresponding
   dependencies are valid.

   ```
   sudo composer-cli blueprints depsolve myblueprint
   ```

   If Image Builder is unable to validate the dependencies, delete the
   `osbuild-composer` cache.

   ```
   sudo rm -rf /var/cache/osbuild-composer/*
   ```

   ```
   sudo systemctl restart osbuild-composer
   ```


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/HowtoEditBlueprint.html -->

Learn how to edit an existing blueprint.

The following procedure describes how to edit an existing blueprint configuration using the
CLI. Alternatively, you can edit a blueprint using the Cockpit web console interface, see
[Oracle Linux: Using the Cockpit Web Console](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/cockpit/) for more details.

1. Edit an existing blueprint as follows: 
   1. (Optional) List the existing blueprints. 

      ```
      sudo composer-cli blueprints list
      ```
   2. Save or export the blueprint you want to edit.

      ```
      sudo composer-cli blueprints save myblueprint
      ```

      The blueprint specification file is saved as the name of the
      blueprint defined in the metadata, with the `.toml` extension, in the
      current directory.
   3. Using a text editor, edit the blueprint specification file by revising package and
      customization entries as required.
   4. Remove the line `packages = []` if it exists in the
      blueprint.
   5. Update the version by incrementing the number as appropriate.

      Ensure that the version follows the scheme in <https://semver.org/>.
   6. Save the changes.
   7. Push or import the blueprint specification file into Image Builder.

      ```
      sudo composer-cli blueprints push myblueprintfile.toml
      ```
2. (Optional) View the revised blueprint configuration.

   ```
   sudo composer-cli blueprints show myblueprint
   ```
3. Verify that the blueprint's components, versions, and corresponding
   dependencies are valid.

   ```
   sudo composer-cli blueprints depsolve myblueprint
   ```

   If Image Builder is unable to validate the dependencies, remove the
   `osbuild-composer` cache.

   ```
   sudo rm -rf /var/cache/osbuild-composer/*
   ```

   ```
   sudo systemctl restart osbuild-composer
   ```


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/HowToCreateImage.html -->

Learn how to create an image based on a blueprint.

You must have an existing blueprint to use to create an image.

The following task describes how to create a custom image based on a specified blueprint
and how to download the resulting composer image.

1. Create the image with the blueprint specifications.

   ```
   sudo composer-cli compose start myblueprint image-type
   ```

   For a list of valid image types, see [Image Types and Output Formats](ImgTypeRef.html "Image Builder can generate different types of image that can be deployed on specific platforms."). Alternatively, type:

   ```
   sudo composer-cli compose types
   ```

   While the process is running in the background, the composer image's UUID is
   displayed.
2. Use the UUID to track the progress of the image building process with the following
   command:

   ```
   sudo composer-cli compose info image-uuid
   ```

   The image's status indicates `FINISHED` when Image Builder has completed the build process.

   Tip:

   The output of the `sudo composer-cli
   compose info` command is verbose. Pipe the output of the command to
   `head` to see only the current
   status:

   ```
   sudo composer-cli compose info image-uuid | head -1
   ```
3. Download the image file.

   ```
   sudo composer-cli compose image image-uuid
   ```

   To download the image's metadata and logs, enter:

   ```
   sudo composer-cli compose [metadata|logs] image-uuid
   ```


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/UseCases.html -->

Examples of using Image Builder to create and deploy different image types.

This chapter shows cases where Image Builder is used to create and deploy images for specific
setups and configurations.


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/CreateISOImages.html -->

Learn how to use the Image Builder CLI to create an ISO image.

You must have a valid blueprint with the specifications you require for the image. This
blueprint must be pushed or imported to Image Builder. To fulfill these requirements, see
[Creating a Blueprint](HowToPrepareBlueprint.html#task_dd1_x3q_rwb "Learn how to create a blueprint.") or [Editing a Blueprint](HowtoEditBlueprint.html#task_zft_fy5_xbc "Learn how to edit an existing blueprint.").

Perform this procedure to create an ISO image which installs the OS on a bare metal system.
At the end of the procedure, an `.iso` file is created that contains the
following:

- Standard Anaconda installer ISO
- Embedded Oracle Linux system tar file
- Kickstart file that installs the commit with the minimum default
  requirements

The installer ISO contains a preconfigured system image that you can use to install
on a bare metal system.

1. (Optional) Verify that the blueprint for the ISO image is in Image Builder.

   ```
   sudo composer-cli blueprints show myblueprint
   ```
2. Create the ISO image.

   ```
   sudo composer-cli compose start myblueprint image-installer
   ```

   While the process is running in the background, the composer image's UUID is
   displayed.
3. Check the status of the image.

   ```
   sudo composer-cli compose info image-uuid
   ```

   Repeat this check until the status indicates `FINISHED` when Image
   Builder has completed the build process.
4. Download the ISO image file.

   ```
   sudo composer-cli compose image image-uuid
   ```

   The ISO image file contains a `*.tar` file which is the OS
   image to be installed on a system.
5. (Optional) Mount the downloaded image and extract the contents. 
   1. Mount the downloaded image. 

      ```
      sudo mount -o ro iso-image /mnt
      ```

      iso-image includes the full path and the name of the ISO image
      file.

      The `/mnt/` mount point contains the
      `liveimag.tar.gz` file.
   2. Extract the contents of the `*.tar` file

      ```
      tar xvf /mnt/liveimg.tar.gz
      ```
6. Select the appropriate method for installing the OS. 

   For example, you can use the ISO image as an installer when booting a system from a
   location where you want to automatically load the image to a hard disk. Otherwise, you can
   extract the image file, as described, and use this file to manually deploy the image to a
   target environment (such as a cloud environment, virtual machine, and so on).

   For more information about installing Oracle Linux 9, see [Oracle Linux 9: Installing Oracle Linux](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/install/).


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/ImgTypeRef.html -->

Image Builder can generate different types of image that can be deployed on specific
platforms.

| Image Description | Command Image Type | Output File Extension |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Oracle Linux optical disc image | `image-installer` | `.iso` |
| Oracle Cloud Infrastructure images | `oci` | `.qcow2` |
| TAR Archive | `tar` | `.tar` |
| QEMU QCOW2 image | `qcow` | `.qcow2` |
| Azure Disk Image | `vhd` | `.vhd` |
| Amazon Machine Image Disk | `ami` | `.raw` |

To list the types of image that you can build, run the following command:

```
sudo composer-cli compose types
```


---
<!-- page: https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/9/ibldr/BlueprintFormat.html -->

Blueprint content consists of basic metadata information, package information, and
customizations.

A blueprint provides the specification for an Image Builder custom image. Elements in a
typical blueprint file include: 1) basic metadata, 2) package listings, and 3) other
customizations. All configuration entries in a blueprint are defined using the
`parameter = "value"` format.

Metadata and package information are defined at the root of the blueprint.

Basic Metadata Information

The blueprint's metadata provides general information about the blueprint itself. The
metadata is entered at the top of the file and consists of:

- name: The name of the blueprint (required).
- description: A description for the blueprint (optional).
- version: A version number for the blueprint (required). The version
  follows the semantic versioning scheme in <https://semver.org/>.
- distro: The required distro in the Image Builder repository, which
  the image is based on (optional). If the distro value is empty, the
  image is based on the host image
  distro.

```
name = "myblueprint"
        description = "My Blueprint"
        version = "0.0.2"
        distro = "ol-9"
```

Package Information

Package information is a general term that identifies a list of packages, modules,
containers, and groups. Each entry has a corresponding heading in the format
`[[heading]]`.

The parameters under each heading depend on what the heading describes. For example package
and module lists require the name and version of the package. The version format follows
`dnf` version specifications. For example, the version for a major release
is specified as
`n.n.n`, such as
8.7.0. To specify the latest package version, enter an asterisk (`*`) in
place of the version number. For a minor release, type
`major-number.*`, such as 8.\*.

Containers and groups require different information and use different parameters. Each
package, module, container, or group listing must have its own heading, as shown in the
following example:

```
[[packages]]
name = "tmux"
version = "3.5"

[[packages]]
name = "python3"
version = "3.9.18"

[[groups]]
name = "graphical-admin-tools"
```

- Packages: Are defined in a `[[packages]]` block. Each entry requires
  the package name and version.
- Package groups: Are defined in a `[[groups]]` block. Each entry
  requires only the name of the package group.

Note:

A package group is a set of related packages defined as such in a repository. Therefore,
a package group has its own blueprint heading `[[groups]]`, to distinguish
it from an individual package.

Customizations

Customizations include any other specifications for the image that aren't associated with
packages. For example: users, groups, and keys.

Customizations are defined under the heading `[customizations]`, with more
specific customizations appending a keyword to the heading for better identification, for
example `[[customizations.locale]]`. Customizations typically include more
parameters than package information entries.

The following example shows customizations for the image's hostname, locale, time zone, and
groups.

```
[customizations]
hostname = "system1"

[[customizations.locale]]
languages = ["en_GB.utf8"]
keyboard = "gb"

[[customizations.timezone]]
timezone = "Europe/Dublin"
ntpservers = ["uk.pool.ntp.org"]

[[customizations.group]]
name = "students"
```

Other custom entries that you can define include the following:

- Users: Contains all the required details that apply to the specific user account, such
  as the user's name, home directory, the user's default shell, groups to which the user is
  assigned, and so on.
- SSH key: Contains the particular user's name and the public SSH key that you create for
  the user. This key is added to the user's `authorized_keys` file.
- Kernel: Contains arguments to append to the bootloader's command line.
- Firewall ports: Contain the list of ports that you want to open. The ports are specified
  by using the `port:protocol` format,
  for example, `22:tcp`.
- Firewall services: A separate listing that contains a list of services that you enable
  and disable for the image. To identify which services you can enable or disable, run the
  `firewall-cmd --get-services` command.
- `Systemd` services: Similar to firewall services, this entry contains a
  list of `systemd` services that you enable and disable for an image.

The preceding list is partial. For a complete list of blueprint entries, see <https://osbuild.org/docs/user-guide/blueprint-reference/>.